B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 1
Career Stage Profile
Job Family Group: Program Management
Job Family: Business Program Management
Summary
Job Family Definition Applies understanding of multiple project management methodologies across a large range of strategic and
complex projects and programs within or on behalf of their function. Utilizes program management skills and
experience to navigate uncertain and ambiguous scenarios, and create and maintain momentum in a highly
matrixed, highly complex and fast paced working environment. Collaborates with internal stakeholders to define
milestones, tasks and activities needed to achieve program goals, ensure appropriate impact, and/or produce
desired outputs. Manages change, negotiates deadlines and deliverables with stakeholders, prioritizes work,
manages conflict. Identifies potential risks, tracks the risks to determine potential impact, and works with
stakeholders to drive consensus around mitigation plans. Uses a portfolio-wide perspective to ensure that the
team delivers high-quality deliverables that meet customer and business priorities and timelines. Consistently
identifies and defines business and process improvement plans for the initiative/program that are aligned to the
cadence of the business and its strategy and goals. Communicates status updates and ensures alignment with
wider programs and strategic direction. Finds opportunities for company-wide improvement programs to
enhance internal and external experiences and internal business operating processes. Ensures stakeholder
alignment and comfort in high pressure, complex scenarios to lead the business in defining activities, strategies,
solutions, processes, procedures, and mitigation actions/decisions. Drives the rhythm of business regarding
individual program goals to ensure program/business goals. Identifies organizational, cultural, industry, and
competitive trends, and their impact on customer experiences based on feedback.
Job Profiles included:
• P1 – P6 (G6 – G11)
• M4 – M6 (G9 – G11)

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 2
 Job Profile Summaries
 Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
 Key Responsibilities (Manager)
 Skills

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 3
Job Profile Summaries
Job Profile Job Profile Summary
Business Program Assumes accountability for reporting out and clearly communicating on status. With direction from senior staff, updates business and process improvement plans for assigned projects in a timely
Management P1 (G6) manner. Begins to engage existing stakeholders to equip them with the correct information and meet their expectations. Learns and understands the current state of customer experiences in one's
area of expertise, including knowledge of tools, techniques, strategies, and processes that can be utilized to improve process efficiency and performance.
Business Program Assumes accountability for reporting out and clearly communicating on status. Ensures business and process improvement plans for assigned areas are updated in a timely manner. Engages with
Management P2 (G7) existing stakeholders to equip them with the correct information and meet their expectations to support project execution. Learns and understands the current state of customer experiences in one's
area of expertise, including knowledge of tools, techniques, strategies, and processes that can be utilized to improve process efficiency and performance.
Business Program Applies working understanding of project management methodologies successfully to enable the successful management of a number of smaller projects within or aligned to their organization.
Management P3 (G8) Leverages tools, processes, and methods to ensure deliverables are relevant, accurate, and timely. Evaluates changes in regards to products, services, and issues from the stakeholder perspective.
Uses business knowledge to assist with analyzing the work of other internal teams to identify potential future business opportunities.
Business Program Applies advanced understanding of multiple project management methodologies across a large range of strategic and complex projects and programs within or on behalf of their function.
Management P4 (G9) Consistently identifies and defines business and process improvement plans for the initiative/program that are aligned to the cadence of the business and its strategy and goals. Ensures stakeholder
alignment and comfort in high pressure, complex scenarios to lead the business in defining activities, strategies, solutions, processes, procedures, and mitigation actions/decisions. Uses business
knowledge to assist with analyzing the work of other internal teams to identify potential future business opportunities.
Business Program Applies in-depth understanding of multiple project management methodologies across a large range of highly strategic and highly complex projects and programs within or on behalf of GitHub.
Management P5 (G10) Identifies and creates requirements for objectives and tools. Ensures stakeholder alignment by actively driving discussions which lead the business in defining activities, strategies, solutions,
processes, procedures, and mitigation actions/decisions. Uses business knowledge to assist with analyzing the work of other internal teams to identify potential future business opportunities.
Business Program Applies expert understanding of multiple project management methodologies across a large range of highly strategic and highly complex projects and programs within or on behalf of GitHub or
Management P6 (G11) Microsoft. Approves identified requirements for objectives and tools. Influences and transforms the relationship of internal stakeholder engagements to equip and enable them with relevant
information. Uses business knowledge and technical expertise to assist with analyzing the work of other internal teams to identify potential future business opportunities.
Business Program Monitors, coordinates, and ensures collaboration across cross-functional teams to support execution of projects. Oversees the creation and/or development of deliverables that are relevant, accurate,
Management M4 (G9) and timely. Develops the overall stakeholder strategy to ensure appropriate business model, value proposition, messaging, support structure, and readiness. Collaborates with leaders of other teams
to identify and propose potential business opportunities and/or services. In addition, this role has people management responsibilities including driving employee growth and development,
executing projects, and managing performance.
Business Program Consults and coordinates across teams and divisions to support execution of projects. Stays current with program progress and is able to act as a consultant for teams, and an escalation point to
Management M5 (G10) step in and prevent failure or delay. Drives the overall stakeholder strategy to ensure appropriate business model, value proposition, messaging, support structure, and readiness. Supports
continuous improvement in customer experiences through the research and development of new tools, methodologies, and/or processes. In addition, this role has people management
responsibilities including driving employee growth and development, executing projects, and managing performance.
Business Program Consults and coordinates across multiple functions, teams, and stakeholders to define effective strategies and support stakeholders on the execution of projects. Takes ownership for the end-to-end
Management M6 (G11) quality and alignment with business needs of programs for the complete lifecycle. Owns and evolves the relationship of stakeholder engagements to equip and enable them with relevant
information. Sponsors collaborative innovation with other teams. In addition, this role has people management responsibilities including driving employee growth and development, executing
projects, and managing performance.

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 4
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program
Management P1 (G6) Management P2 (G7) Management P3 (G8) Management P4 (G9) Management P5 (G10) Management P6 (G11)
Business Program • Assumes accountability for reporting out and clearly • Applies working • Applies advanced • Applies in-depth • Applies expert
Management communicating on status. understanding of project understanding of multiple understanding of multiple understanding of multiple
Project / Program • Collaborates with team members to enhance stakeholder management project management project management project management
Management experiences and program goals. methodologies successfully methodologies across a methodologies across a methodologies across a
• Aligns with expectations for deliverables and contributes to to enable the successful large range of strategic and large range of highly large range of highly
timely delivery. management of a number complex projects and strategic and highly strategic and highly
• Gains awareness of project management tools and of smaller projects within or programs within or on complex projects and complex projects and
methodologies. aligned to their behalf of their function. programs within or on programs within or on
• Plans activity with others in order for a program to deliver organization. • Utilizes program behalf of GitHub. behalf of GitHub or
desirable results. • Ensures stakeholder management skills and • Utilizes advanced program Microsoft.
• Manages metrics related to a project. alignment and aids in the experience to navigate management skills and • Utilizes expert program
• Identifies conflicts and constraints, and communicates to identification and mitigation uncertain and ambiguous experience to formulate a management skills and
relevant stakeholders. of risks for assigned scenarios, and create and plan and path forward experience to ask
• Applies project management methodologies to help drive projects. maintain momentum in a through uncertain and thoughtful questions to
success of a project. • Collaborates with internal highly matrixed, highly ambiguous scenarios, effectively define problems,
teams (e.g., Revenue, complex and fast paced overcoming roadblocks and formulate a plan and path
Product, Operations, working environment. obstacles to create and forward through uncertain
Education, Marketing, Legal, • Collaborates with and at maintain momentum in a and ambiguous scenarios,
Corporate External and times leads internal highly matrixed, highly and overcome roadblocks
Legal Affairs, Human stakeholders to define complex and fast paced and obstacles to create and
Resources, Design) to milestones, tasks and working environment. maintain momentum in a
enhance customer activities needed to achieve • Collaborates with and at highly matrixed, highly
experiences and wider program goals, ensure times leads internal complex and fast paced
business processes. appropriate impact, and/or stakeholders to define working environment.
• Aligns with those involved produce desired outputs. milestones, tasks, and • Coordinates across
on expectations for work • Independently manages activities needed to achieve divisions and assembles
delivery and contributes to change, negotiates program goals, ensure teams as needed to define
timely execution. deadlines and deliverables appropriate impact, and/or milestones, tasks and
• Manages change, with stakeholders, produce desired outputs. activities needed to achieve
negotiates deadlines and prioritizes work, manages • Drives communication of program goals, ensure
deliverables with conflict. program status and appropriate results, and
stakeholders, prioritizes • Considers cross-functional performance to cross- produce desired outputs.
work. inputs, identifies functional teams. • Drives communication of
• Considers cross-functional collaborative opportunities • Influences customer and/or program status and
inputs, timeliness, and and key stakeholders stakeholder experience performance to cross-
dependencies, and balances within/across projects, and across projects and the functional and cross-
organization. organizational teams.

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 5
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program
Management P1 (G6) Management P2 (G7) Management P3 (G8) Management P4 (G9) Management P5 (G10) Management P6 (G11)
competing business balances competing • Identifies and assesses • Assesses potential risks,
objectives. business objectives. potential risks, evaluates evaluates the risks to
• Communicates program • Identifies potential risks, the risks to determine determine potential impact,
status and performance, tracks the risks to potential impact, and works and works with
alongside associated risks determine potential impact, with stakeholders to stakeholders to implement
and decisions to cross- and works with mitigate risks, elevating to methods of mitigation.
functional teams. stakeholders to drive senior team members as • Leads discussions to reach
• Serves as a point of contact consensus around needed. consensus and capture key
to answer questions, mitigation plans. • Guides discussions to reach decisions made,
provide feedback, and • Elevates issues to senior consensus and capture key challenging decisions as
review work. team members as needed. decisions made, challenging needed to seek the best
• Analyzes and improves • Drives discussions to reach decisions as needed to seek solution for customers and
team level processes and consensus and capture key the best solution for the business.
working practices. decisions made, challenging customers and the business. • Guides customer and/or
• Facilitates and is able to decisions as needed to seek • Partners with internal teams stakeholder experience
undertake resolution of the best solution for (e.g., Revenue, Product, across projects and the
minor conflicts, including customers and the business. Operations, Education, organization, including at
resourcing, competing Influences customer Marketing, Legal, Corporate the executive level.
priorities, proposed experience with External and Legal Affairs, • Partners with cross-
solutions, and activities. demonstrable business Human Resources, Design) functional and cross-
impact. to inform all relevant organizational stakeholders
• Defines key performance partners about the to inform all relevant
indicators (KPIs) and customer experience and partners about the
collaborates with business wider business processes. customer experience.
operations teams to • Defines key performance • Oversees team members
implement KPIs and post- indicators (KPIs) and answering questions,
project tracking. collaborates with business providing feedback, and
• Serves as a point of contact operations teams to reviewing work.
to answer questions, implement KPIs and post- • Defines key performance
provide feedback, and project tracking. indicators (KPIs) and
review work. • Guides team members collaborates with business
• Uses a portfolio-wide answering questions, operations teams to
perspective to ensure that providing feedback, and implement KPIs and post-
the team delivers high- reviewing work. project tracking.
quality deliverables that • Influences customer • Serves as a point of contact
meet customer and experience with to answer questions,

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 6
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program
Management P1 (G6) Management P2 (G7) Management P3 (G8) Management P4 (G9) Management P5 (G10) Management P6 (G11)
business priorities and demonstrable business provide feedback, and
timelines. impact. review work.
• Collaborates with internal • Uses a portfolio-wide • Influences customer
teams (e.g., Revenue, perspective to ensure that experience with
Product, Operations, the team delivers high- demonstrable business
Education, Marketing, Legal, quality deliverables that impact.
Corporate External and meet customer and • Uses a portfolio-wide
Legal Affairs, Human business priorities and perspective to ensure that
Resources, Design) to timelines. the team delivers high-
inform all relevant partners quality deliverables that
about the customer meet customer and
experience and wider business priorities and
business processes. timelines.
Business Program • With direction from senior • Ensures business and • Leverages tools, processes, • Consistently identifies and • Identifies and creates • Approves identified
Management staff, updates business and process improvement plans and methods to ensure defines business and requirements for objectives requirements for objectives
Driving Business Impact process improvement plans for assigned areas are deliverables are relevant, process improvement plans and tools (e.g., process and tools (e.g., process
and Continuous for assigned projects in a updated in a timely manner. accurate, and timely. for the initiative/program flows, visualizations, flows, visualizations,
Improvement timely manner. • May report on program • Improves tools and that are aligned to the dashboards). dashboards).
• Uses tools (e.g., process performance to customizes processes and cadence of the business • Defines objectives and key • Monitors how objectives
flows, visualizations, stakeholders. workflows appropriately for and its strategy and goals. results (OKRs) and monitors and key results (OKRs) drive
dashboards) to assist with • Uses tools (e.g., process programs, and evangelizes • Communicates status how they drive business business across a number
processes as appropriate. flows, visualizations, improvements to team updates and ensures across a number of key of key performance
Ensures project plans are dashboards) to assist with members. alignment with wider performance indicators indicators (KPIs).
followed. processes as appropriate. • Interprets data and programs and strategic (KPIs). • Monitors success and
• Assesses quality of • Provides input on product feedback and converts it direction. • Improves procedures to makes recommendations
deliverables to drive strategy and complexity for into recommendations for • Sets outcome goals and enhance productivity, such based on performance of
business impact. production and capacity improvement and areas of charter, alongside accurate as process/workflow those objectives.
planning. opportunity. expectations for content improvements and task • Stays current with program
• Assesses and ensures • Uses understanding of the and activity delivery, and automation. progress and is able to act
quality of deliverables to impact of technology (e.g., helps lead teams and • Identifies and drives as a consultant for teams.
drive business impact. products, features, tools) on colleagues across the execution of company-wide • Leads execution of
business processes, teams, business in timely delivery. improvement programs to company-wide
and content delivery to • Drives large scale enhance internal and improvement programs to
determine what changes improvements through external experiences and enhance internal and
are needed. complexity to enhance internal business operating external experiences and
processes. internal business operating

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 7
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program
Management P1 (G6) Management P2 (G7) Management P3 (G8) Management P4 (G9) Management P5 (G10) Management P6 (G11)
• Assists with finding efficiency and/or customer • Drives the process of taking processes, and removes
opportunities for company- experience. learnings from previous barriers to ensure
wide improvement • Finds opportunities for projects and applying them implementation.
programs to enhance company-wide to wider applications across
internal and external improvement programs to the business for greater
experiences and internal enhance internal and impact.
business operating external experiences and
processes. internal business operating
• Assists with finding processes.
opportunities to apply • Finds opportunities to take
understanding of business learnings from previous
impact (with tools, projects and seeks to apply
processes, and methods) to to wider applications across
support cross-business the business for greater
projects and deliverables. impact.
Business Program • Begins to engage existing • Engages with existing • Evaluates changes in • Ensures stakeholder • Ensures stakeholder • Influences and transforms
Management stakeholders to equip them stakeholders to equip them regards to products, alignment and comfort in alignment by actively the relationship of internal
Stakeholder with the correct information with the correct information services, and issues from high pressure, complex driving discussions which stakeholder engagements
Engagement and meet their and meet their expectations the stakeholder perspective. scenarios to lead the lead the business in to equip and enable them
(Internal or External) expectations. to support project • Able to review data points business in defining defining activities, with relevant information.
• Works to meet or exceed execution. and stakeholder feedback activities, strategies, strategies, solutions, • Drives the business strategy
expectations and provide a • Consistently works to meet to determine activities solutions, processes, processes, procedures, and across markets to define
positive experience. or exceed stakeholder required and/or potential procedures, and mitigation mitigation mutual goals and define the
• Gathers feedback and data expectations and provide a risks, and recommends actions/decisions. actions/decisions. rhythm of business.
relating to deliverables. positive experience. possible changes in • Takes a strategic approach • Develops the business • Determines strategic
• Resolves stakeholder • Gathers feedback and data program strategies as and assists to develop an strategy across markets to business direction to meet
problems within their relating to deliverables, and necessary. overall plan for ongoing define mutual goals and projected needs.
projects or programs integrates or makes • Develops ongoing relations relations and interactions define the rhythm of • Proactively seeks
highlighted by feedback. recommendations on how with stakeholders designed with stakeholders. business. opportunities and plans,
to integrate this feedback to ensure that their work • Analyzes business and • Recommends strategic organizes, and coordinates
to achieve program goals. content, and outputs are program needs and adapts business direction to meet activities to provide
• Resolves stakeholder being ingested in a timely to how current and new projected needs. expertise and insights
problems within their manner, and GitHub quality requirements may change. • Seeks opportunities and internally and/or at
plans, organizes, and industry/third-party events.

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 8
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program
Management P1 (G6) Management P2 (G7) Management P3 (G8) Management P4 (G9) Management P5 (G10) Management P6 (G11)
projects or programs standards are being • Drives the rhythm of coordinates activities to • Supports business
highlighted by feedback. realized. business (ROB) in regards provide expertise and development in the
• May educate stakeholders • Contacts stakeholders to to individual program goals insights internally and/or at onboarding of stakeholders
on changes or updates. follow up on issues and to ensure program/business industry/third-party events. and incorporating changes
solutions to ensure their goals. • Identifies and ensures in program requirements.
needs have been correctly • Collaborates and consults collaborative relationships • Identifies and strengthens
and effectively met. with internal stakeholders with internal stakeholders collaborative relationships
• Ensures programs are as necessary to maintain as necessary in support of with internal stakeholders
working efficiently and momentum and support program execution and as necessary in support of
takes steps to address program execution. continued program execution and
issues if necessary. • Manages critical or time- awareness/alignment. continued
• Collaborates with internal sensitive issues/changes to • Drives the rhythm of awareness/alignment.
stakeholders as necessary their program. business (ROB) in regards • Provides oversight into
to support program to individual program goals solutions to critical or time-
execution. to ensure program/business sensitive user/customer
goals, and ensures issues as required.
alignment with cross- • Drives the rhythm of
organizational ROB. business (ROB) in regards
• Manages critical or time- to individual program goals
sensitive issues/changes to to ensure
their program. program/business goals,
ensures alignment with
cross-organizational ROB,
and removes barriers to
ensure success.
Business Program • Learns and understands the current state of customer • Uses business knowledge to assist with analyzing the work of • Uses business knowledge to • Uses business knowledge
Management experiences in one's area of expertise, including knowledge of other internal teams to identify potential future business assist with analyzing the and technical expertise to
Thought Leadership tools, techniques, strategies, and processes that can be utilized opportunities. work of other internal assist with analyzing the
to improve process efficiency and performance. • Identifies organizational, cultural, industry, and competitive teams to identify potential work of other internal
• Maintains knowledge of current trends within the job family. trends, and their impact on customer experiences based on future business teams to identify potential
• Stays updated on industry and competitive trends and adjusts feedback. opportunities. future business
program plans as needed. • Shares knowledge, best practices, and thought leadership • Collaborates across teams opportunities.
• Shares knowledge and best practices within teams and insights across teams and projects. using knowledge of • Drives collaboration across
projects. • Participates in innovation efforts with other teams. industry trends, teams using deep
methodologies, and knowledge of industry
advances. trends, business processes,

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 9
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program Business Program
Management P1 (G6) Management P2 (G7) Management P3 (G8) Management P4 (G9) Management P5 (G10) Management P6 (G11)
• Researches and maintains methodologies, and
knowledge of advances.
advancements in industry • Maintains deep knowledge
trends and technologies. of advancements in
• Shares knowledge, best industry trends and
practices, and insights technologies.
across teams and projects. • Shares knowledge, best
• Supports innovation efforts practices, and insights
with other teams. across teams and projects.
• Drives innovation efforts
with other teams.

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 10
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
Business Program Management M4 (G9) Business Program Management M5 (G10) Business Program Management M6 (G11)
Business Program • Monitors, coordinates, and ensures collaboration across • Consults and coordinates across teams and divisions to • Consults and coordinates across multiple functions, teams,
Management cross-functional teams to support execution of projects. support execution of projects. and stakeholders to define effective strategies and support
Project/Program Management • Takes ownership of team's work from assignment of • Guides team's work from assignment of resources through stakeholders on the execution of projects.
resources through kickoff, execution, and closure of kickoff, execution, and closure of projects and programs. • Builds a portfolio of programs and projects for less
projects and programs. • Owns the communication of program status and experienced team members to manage.
• Proposes and executes plans and remedies to achieve performance to cross-organizational teams, maintaining • Collaborates with cross-organizational stakeholders (e.g.,
project/program results. awareness and alignment broadly. Revenue, Product, Operations, Education, Marketing, Legal,
• Drives the use and understanding of customer/stakeholder • Collaborates with cross-functional and/or cross- Corporate External and Legal Affairs, Human Resources,
feedback and ensures that it is incorporated into program organizational stakeholders to inform all relevant partners Design) to enhance customer experiences and wider
goals. about the customer experience. business process efficiency.
• Provides oversight and decision making in day-to-day • Defines key performance indicators (KPIs) and collaborates • Defines team-level key performance indicators (KPIs).
project/program execution. with business operations teams to implement KPIs and • Works with direct reports to define and shape programs,
• Defines key performance indicators (KPIs) and collaborates post-project tracking. and provides oversight throughout the program or project
with business operations teams to implement KPIs and • Coaches others to ensure that team members use a lifecycle.
post-project tracking. portfolio-wide perspective to provide high-quality • Oversees the coaching process to ensure that team
• Ensures that team members use a portfolio-wide deliverables that meet customer and business priorities and members use a portfolio-wide perspective to provide high-
perspective to provide high-quality deliverables that meet timelines. quality deliverables that meet customer and business
customer and business priorities and timelines. • Fosters efficiencies and communication across projects and priorities and timelines.
• Ensures that the program plan for a given task is teams. • Sets strategy for creating efficiencies and improving
understood, and drives the plan to be successful. • Ensures that the program plan for a given task is communication across projects and teams.
• Takes ownership for business strategy across multiple understood, and drives the plan to be successful. • Takes ownership for business strategy across all ongoing
projects. • Takes ownership for business strategy across multiple large projects.
projects.
Business Program • Oversees the creation and/or development of deliverables • Stays current with program progress and is able to act as a • Takes ownership for the end-to-end quality and alignment
Management that are relevant, accurate, and timely. consultant for teams, and an escalation point to step in and with business needs of programs for the complete lifecycle.
Driving Business Impact and • Monitors and improves effectiveness and relevancy by prevent failure or delay. • Owns and leads improvements to wider business processes,
Continuous Improvement leveraging customer and/or stakeholder feedback. • Provides oversight to the program lifecycle by monitoring, customer experience, and deliverables.
• Manages the program lifecycle by monitoring, improving, improving, and retiring processes as needed. • Leverages data and market intelligence to envision future
and retiring processes as needed. • Influences and leads improvements to wider business needs and develop stretch targets to drive business impact.
• Establishes a workflow system or plan for requesting, processes. • Evangelizes the position of the product within the broader
creating, editing, and sharing deliverables. • Leverages data and industry expertise to drive business organization.
• Reduces complexity and redundancy. impact across multiple teams. • Identifies and sets targets for team to achieve greater
• Works with internal teams to understand how specific • Drives teams to achieve greater impact and efficiency to impact and efficiency to ensure success, and to apply a
processes fit into the bigger picture. ensure success, and to apply a growth mindset to enhance growth mindset to enhance results.
• Leverages tools and processes to measure and analyze results.
workflow in order to develop strategies and tactics that will
continually increase engagement and ensure success.

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 11
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
Business Program Management M4 (G9) Business Program Management M5 (G10) Business Program Management M6 (G11)
Business Program Management • Develops the overall stakeholder strategy to ensure • Drives the overall stakeholder strategy to ensure • Owns and evolves the relationship of stakeholder
Stakeholder Engagement appropriate business model, value proposition, messaging, appropriate business model, value proposition, messaging, engagements to equip and enable them with relevant
(Internal or External) support structure, and readiness. support structure, and readiness. information.
• Analyzes program needs and how current and potentially • Proactively evangelizes stakeholder expertise and strategy • Takes ownership for internal and external stakeholder
new stakeholders can adapt to requirements. within the organization as well as externally at strategy across regions.
• Supports business development in the onboarding of industry/third-party events. • Provides strategic business direction to meet projected
stakeholders and incorporating changes in program • Influences and transforms the relationship of stakeholder needs of stakeholders.
requirements. engagements to equip and enable them with relevant • Drives cross-organizational group stakeholder governance
• Evangelizes the value of stakeholder relations at external information. and rhythm of business to ensure business goals.
events (e.g., conferences, meetings). • Identifies key strategic stakeholders and contributes to
• Influences the relationship of stakeholder engagements to decisions with large-scale cost and revenue implications.
equip and enable them with relevant information. • Prepares executive leadership for stakeholder/customer
• Engages with stakeholders to ensure agreement on escalations.
deliverables. • Drives overall cross-organizational group stakeholder
• Drives the connection between program management governance and rhythm of business to ensure business
teams and stakeholders to ensure clear communication. goals.
• Supports the preparation of executive leadership for • Works with internal and external stakeholders to ensure
stakeholders/customer escalations. that business plans are aligned with needs and are of high
• Drives cross-organizational group stakeholder governance quality.
and rhythm of business as required to ensure business
goals.
Business Program Management • Collaborates with leaders of other teams to identify and • Supports continuous improvement in customer experiences • Sponsors collaborative innovation with other teams.
Thought Leadership propose potential business opportunities and/or services. through the research and development of new tools, • Anticipates business challenges and creates a vision for
• Manages efforts to research, develop, and implement new methodologies, and/or processes. one's GitHub product group and/or organization.
tools, methodologies, and/or processes that may improve • Shares expertise and provides support across organizations • Contributes to the development of broader GitHub
customer experiences. to drive the definition and execution of strategy. strategy.
• Shares knowledge, best practices, and insights across teams • Drives innovation efforts with other teams. • Drives continuous improvement of customer experiences
and projects. and products through the research and development of
• Participates in innovation efforts with other teams. new tools, methodologies, and/or processes.
• Represents and evangelizes on behalf of GitHub deep
knowledge of industry trends, methodologies, and
advances.
• Promotes solutions that are leveraged across multiple
teams.

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 12
Skills
Skill Key
1 Critical/Important and Required Upon Hire
2 Critical/Important and NOT Required Upon Hire
- Not Important/Critical
M5 M6
Skill Cluster Name Skill Name Skill Definition P1 (G6) P2 (G7) P3 (G8) P4 (G9) P5 (G10) P6 (G11) M4 (G9)
(G10) (G11)
The ability to understand the parts of the business and their
interrelationships. This includes skill in understanding the industry,
competition, and expected future developments and challenges, the
Business Acumen 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Business Acumen and business's competitive strengths and weaknesses, opportunities to
Insights grow the business and reduce operating costs, and awareness of the
environment for opportunities.
Knowledge of and ability to develop, use, and/or discuss GitHub
GitHub Products 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
products with internal teams or customers/partners.
The ability to understand and deliver information through a
Communications contextually appropriate medium that is tailored to the audience. This 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
includes oral and written communication in English for work matters.
The ability to manage conflict, disharmony, and strife among people
Conflict Resolution 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
and situations, while recognizing and addressing sensitivities.
The skill to influence others, develop and maintain working
Consulting relationships, and deliver results and/or expertise for a client in a 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Communication and
professional manner.
Influence
The ability to communicate information or ideas in a persuasive and
Persuasion assertive manner to influence stakeholders towards a point of view or 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
obtain their commitment.
The ability to prepare effective presentations in content and function,
Presentation Skills - - 2 1 1 1 1 1 1
and to speak competently to the level of the audience.
The ability to sell and communicate value within and outside the
Storytelling - - - - 1 1 - 1 1
company by sharing stories and historical anecdotes.
The ability to review quantitative or conceptual problems and
Data Driven Decision situations to draw appropriate and valid conclusions from data
Making and Problem Analytical Skills presented. This includes analyzing data to determine the most 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Solving significant elements, identify common elements and themes in
situations and actions, and recognize cause and effect relationships.

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 13
The ability to apply ingenuity, inventiveness, and imagination to the
Creativity inclusive design and construction of a product, service, program, or 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
initiative.
The ability to systematically gather information from a variety of
sources, analyze information, identify implications of data, draw
conclusions, generate alternatives and solutions, and evaluate the
Data Analysis consequences of choosing each alternative using quality metrics and 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
data. This includes the ability to convert general data and findings
into applied, specific information and suggestions that add value to
business planning and strategies.
The ability to make decisions in a fast-paced, rapidly changing
environment. This includes the ability to define, diagnose, and
Decision Making determine an appropriate resolution, recommendation, or decision - - 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
while considering alternatives and factors (e.g., resources, costs,
tradeoffs).
The ability to identify problems and review related information to
Problem Solving 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
Business Process Knowledge of process improvement methodology and the ability to
2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1
Improvement increase the effectiveness and/or efficiency of a business process.
The ability to apply principles, systems, tools, and strategic insights to
Operational Excellence sustainably improve key performance indicator (KPI) metrics and drive 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Innovation and operational efficiencies.
Continuous The ability and willingness to develop one's own skills and abilities.
Improvement This includes identifying own work and career interests, strengths,
and opportunities; pursuing education, training, feedback, and other
Self-Development 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
opportunities for learning and development; keeping abreast of
changes and developments in the profession; and keeping skills and
knowledge up to date.
Knowledge of the business drivers behind technology. This includes
Commercial Technology an understanding of how technology fits within the wider industry,
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Acumen competition, and/or expected future developments and challenges of
Market Acumen the business.
Knowledge of trends, direction, new products, and changes in the
Technology Industry
technology as it applies to a particular area of focus, as well as 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
Knowledge
specific knowledge about hardware, software, and services.

B us i nes s P r o gr am M a na gemen t | 14
The ability to sponsor and champion change initiatives, inspiring
others to embrace the change while supporting them through the
overall change process. This includes knowledge of effective
Behavioral Change communication strategies to facilitate change and gain buy-in. This
- - 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Management also includes problem-solving skills to identify and address barriers to
change, and the ability to measure the effectiveness of change
initiatives or compliance with the change and iterate on the process
to ensure successful outcomes.
Knowledge of and the ability to develop and utilize budgeting
guidelines, practices, and techniques, including forecasting. This may
Budgeting include the knowledge of the department's procedures and reporting - - - - - 2 1 1 1
systems to establish financial budget information at an appropriate
organization level.
The ability to define and implement procedures and/or technologies
Change Management to deal with changes in the environment. This may include adapting 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1
to change and/or affecting change.
The ability to supervise and observe the organization's conformity to
Compliance Management - - - 2 2 2 1 1 1
various standards, procedures, rules, and regulations.
The ability to establish and promote diversity and inclusion in
Project and Program multiple aspects. This may include the ability to identify high-
Management performing and diverse talent, acknowledge/provide accelerated
Diversity Promotion 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
development opportunities and available resources, create and
maintain an environment of objectivity, open communication, and
respect.
The ability to interact confidently with senior leaders of the
organization in order to present/defend/clarify concerns or issues
regarding an existing project, program or solution. This includes the
Executive Presence - - 2 1 1 1 1 1 1
ability to confidently address difficult questions, handle push back
from a high-level audience, and maintain an executive demeanor
while engaging in difficult or sometimes high-pressure situations.
Knowledge of and the ability to carry out the process of planning,
organizing, and managing tasks and resources to accomplish a well-
defined objective. This includes the ability to manage and provide
Project Management 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
project deliverables, optimize the contribution of the people involved,
and assess the impact of project decisions on quality, productivity,
schedules, cost, performance, etc.
Knowledge of and the ability to assess and confirm that the project is
meeting specified requirements and desired outcomes by using
Project Quality Assurance 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
success metrics, aligning to accepted processes, and iterating as
needed.