D es i gn Engi neer i ng | 1
Career Stage Profile
Job Family Group: Design
Job Family: Design Engineering
Summary
Job Family Definition Contributes to the end-to-end creation of high-quality user interfaces, ensuring that design intent is preserved
while considering real-world technical constraints and dependencies. Ships scalable, accessible, and performant
UI solutions, partnering with Product, Engineering, and Design (EPD) stakeholders during the development
lifecycle to meet product vision and release timelines. Prototypes features of various complexity, participating in
architectural discussions for front-end systems, and communicating technical strategies to various audiences.
Leads in quality and craft by defining success metrics for user experience, accessibility, and performance while
establishing design patterns that elevate overall UI standards. Drives cross-disciplinary collaboration, leveraging
technical knowledge and curiosity to push boundaries and raise the bar for UI craft across
the platform.
Job Profiles included:
• P3 – P7 (G8 – G12)
 Job Profile Summaries
 Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
 Skills

D es i gn Engi neer i ng | 2
Job Profile Summaries
Job Profile Job Profile Summary
Design Engineering P3 (G8) Ensures design intent is preserved while optimizing for technical constraints through close collaboration with designers. Assists with creating and validating technical proposals
for UI solutions, testing design feasibility through rapid prototyping and proof-of-concepts. Collaborates with other team members to work with other stakeholders. Implements
high-quality, performant code that brings design concepts to life while maintaining GitHub's design principles and technical standards. Stays current with emerging front-end
technologies and design trends to continuously learn and improve craft and help teams make informed implementation decisions. Under guidance from engineers/designers,
supports cross-disciplinary practices and front-end and design-system capabilities.
Design Engineering P4 (G9) Surfaces dependencies, risks, and trade-offs early, sequencing work to preserve design intent within real technical constraints. Creates and validates architectural proposals for
front-end systems by testing design hypotheses through code and refining implementation approaches. Independently works with other stakeholders. Independently develops
comprehensive quality plans, defining success metrics for performance, accessibility, and user experience. Learns and refines their thinking about, and ideates methods of
implementing emerging front-end technologies and design practices that elevate the quality of their team's user experiences. Inspires engineers/designers, leveling up cross-
disciplinary practices and champion high-leverage front-end and design-system capabilities.
Design Engineering P5 (G10) Proactively identifies cross-team dependencies, sequences delivery, and communicates architectural trade-offs and impact to senior leadership. Leads the creation and validation
of architectural proposals front-end systems spanning multiple products, considering quality, performance, and maintainability. Drives alignment with other stakeholders. Creates
alignment on UI implementation approaches and dependencies across teams while setting technical context for senior leadership on architectural decisions and their impact on
product strategy. Comes prepared with their opinion on and ideates methods of implementing emerging front-end technologies and design practices that elevate the
organization's front-end direction. Mentors and uplevels designers and engineers across domains, cultivating a community of practice around design systems and front-end
excellence.
Design Engineering P6 (G11) Makes critical architectural calls with explicit trade-offs, influencing roadmaps and investment through clear, executive-ready narratives. Oversees design-to-code architecture
discussions across the ecosystem, establishing technical vision for how design and engineering converge at scale. Influences decisions with Design, Product, and Engineering
leadership on requirements for complex UI and customer experience challenges. Works closely with Engineering, Product, and Design to develop innovative approaches that
fundamentally advance GitHub's technical capabilities and user experience standards. Partners with Design/Product/Engineering leadership to set org-level strategy and technical
vision for GitHub’s most complex UI and experience challenges. Elevates craft across the organization, mentoring senior/staff engineers and designers, building communities of
practice, and setting hiring/quality bars.
Design Engineering P7 (G12) Defines a technical roadmap that sets the direction for GitHub-wide front-end architecture, innovating industry-leading user interface (UI) strategies. Innovates scalable design-to-
code frameworks that align engineering and design at the organizational level, establishing technical paradigms. Champions strategic discussions with design engineering leaders
to address GitHub's most complex UI and customer experience challenges. Leads collaboration with Engineering, Product, and Design teams to advance GitHub’s core technical
capabilities and elevate user experience. Directs the development of organizational strategies in partnership with senior leadership, guiding GitHub's most advanced and
innovative UI and experience advancements. Empowers high-performing engineers and designers, promoting a robust community of practice and setting high craft and
innovation standards.

D es i gn Engi neer i ng | 3
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Design Engineering P3 (G8) Design Engineering P4 (G9) Design Engineering P5 (G10) Design Engineering P6 (G11) Design Engineering P7 (G12)
Design Engineering • Ensures design intent is preserved • Surfaces dependencies, risks, and • Proactively identifies cross-team • Makes critical architectural calls • Defines a technical roadmap that
Design Implementation while optimizing for technical trade-offs early, sequencing work dependencies, sequences with explicit trade-offs, sets the direction for GitHub-wide
constraints through close to preserve design intent within delivery, and communicates influencing roadmaps and front-end architecture, innovating
collaboration with designers. real technical constraints. architectural trade-offs and investment through clear, industry-leading user interface
• Implements responsive, • Independently ships scalable, impact to senior leadership. executive-ready narratives. (UI) strategies.
accessible, and performant user maintainable accessible, and • Leads identification of cross-team • Acts as a domain expert in front- • Functions as GitHub’s thought
interfaces (UI) using modern performant user interfaces (UI), dependencies and develops end architecture, design systems, leader on design engineering,
front-end frameworks with cross- collaborating with other teams to standards for scalable, and/or niche areas in design shaping the global landscape of
browser compatibility. ensure seamless integration with maintainable, accessible, and technology. front-end architecture and design
• Supports collaboration with cross- design systems and consistency performant user interface (UI) that • Shapes the strategic direction of systems.
disciplinary partners throughout across downstream product advance design systems scalable, maintainable, accessible, • Represents GitHub’s point of view
all stages of design and features. integration and influence and performant user interface (POV) in external forums,
development, applying design • Proactively collaborates with downstream product features. (UI). advancing and redefining industry
principles and front-end cross-disciplinary partners • Leads collaboration with cross- • Represents GitHub’s point of view standards through proven
engineering to implement optimal throughout all stages of design disciplinary partners throughout (POV) externally with thought technical leadership, shaping
solutions. and development, applying all stages of design and leadership that advances industry GitHub's design implement
• Estimates delivery timelines for UI design principles and front-end development, leveraging deep standards and strengthens strategy.
work and executes project plans. engineering to develop optimal expertise in both design and developer experience, defining • Identifies and establishes cross-
solutions, filling gaps between front-end engineering to drive how teams approach UI functional initiatives, driving
design and coding. cohesive user experiences across implementation from prototype organizational leadership
• Partners with multiple groups. to production. alignments that influence long-
Engineering/Product/Design • Leads cross-functional planning • Oversees initiatives across the term product vision and strategic
(EPD) stakeholders to execute with Engineering/Product/Design organization and identifies priorities.
project plans and ensure UI (EPD) stakeholders, defining strategic opportunities for cross-
implementations align with strategic UI project plans that functional collaboration, driving
product vision and release shape product vision and stakeholder alignment across
timelines. influence release priorities. Engineering/Product/Design
(EPD) stakeholders on product
vision and release priorities.
Design Engineering • Assists with creating and • Creates and validates architectural • Leads the creation and validation • Oversees design-to-code • Innovates scalable design-to-
Prototyping & Feasibility validating technical proposals for proposals for front-end systems of architectural proposals front- architecture discussions across code frameworks that align
UI solutions, testing design by testing design hypotheses end systems spanning multiple the ecosystem, establishing engineering and design at the
feasibility through rapid through code and refining products, considering quality, technical vision for how design organizational level, establishing
prototyping and proof-of- implementation approaches. performance, and maintainability. and engineering converge at technical paradigms.
concepts. • Leads prototyping initiatives for scale. • Pioneers cutting-edge
complex features and • Trailblazes new approaches (e.g., approaches (e.g., artificial
communicates compelling artificial intelligence [AI]-assisted intelligence [AI]-assisted user

D es i gn Engi neer i ng | 4
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Design Engineering P3 (G8) Design Engineering P4 (G9) Design Engineering P5 (G10) Design Engineering P6 (G11) Design Engineering P7 (G12)
technical solutions to diverse user experience [UX], experience [UX],
audiences, building excitement motion/rendering systems), motion/rendering systems),
for innovative approaches. mitigating risk via breakthrough proactively identifying and
prototypes and drive platform mitigating risk through strategic
adoption. prototype development
methodologies.
Design Engineering • Collaborates with other team • Independently works with other • Drives alignment with other • Influences decisions with Design, • Champions strategic discussions
Collaboration members to work with other stakeholders (e.g., product stakeholders (e.g., product Product, and Engineering with design engineering leaders
stakeholders (e.g., product managers, technical leads, managers, technical leads, leadership on requirements for to address GitHub's most
managers, technical leads, designers) to determine UI designers) across multiple teams complex UI and customer complex UI and customer
designers) to determine UI requirements and contributes to on customer requirements and experience challenges. experience challenges.
requirements and technical discussions on technical execution technical approaches for complex • Sets cross-product front-end • Develops and defines the long-
implementation approaches for for customer-facing features UI scenarios. strategy and architecture, aligning term front-end roadmap, aligning
features. within their team's domain. • Leads cross-functional partners Product Management, Design, Product Management, Design,
• Collaborates with designers, • Leads the technical execution of (e.g., Product Management, and Engineering on customer and Engineering leadership teams
engineers, and PMs to translate UI design requirements into polished Design, Engineering) to turn requirements and multi-team on execution plans to meet
requirements into functional, product outcomes. strategic product outcomes into execution plans. overarching customer
user-friendly interfaces. robust and scalable UI requirements.
requirements.
Design Engineering • Implements high-quality, • Independently develops • Creates alignment on UI • Works closely with Engineering, • Leads collaboration with
Quality & Craft performant code that brings comprehensive quality plans, implementation approaches and Product, and Design to develop Engineering, Product, and Design
design concepts to life while defining success metrics for dependencies across teams while innovative approaches that teams to advance GitHub’s core
maintaining GitHub's design performance, accessibility, and setting technical context for fundamentally advance GitHub's technical capabilities and elevate
principles and technical standards. user experience. senior leadership on architectural technical capabilities and user user experience.
• Participates in design reviews to • Leads design reviews, establishing decisions and their impact on experience standards. • Establishes organization-wide
provide technical feasibility patterns and refactors that raise product strategy. • Drives implementation of standards, crafting design and
feedback and suggests the team’s baseline and unblock • Leads design reviews at scale to standards for design and code code review strategies that
enhancements that improve user delivery. ensure cohesive user experiences quality by leading large-scale improve design consistency and
experience. • Ensures front-end standards are across groups, championing review strategies and frameworks, system fidelity.
• Reviews code contributions to met and implementations scale interaction/motion standards, defining cohesive user • Champions industry-leading
ensure quality standards for appropriately. design-system fidelity, and taste. experiences across groups, methodologies that define
performance, accessibility, and • Applies debugging tools and • Provides holistic technical shaping interaction/motion customer engagement strategies
maintainability. browser developer tools to guidance during code reviews standards, and advancing design- and establish a new benchmark
• Applies debugging tools and diagnose complex issues across solution areas, ensuring system fidelity and taste. for GitHub’s interface design.
browser developer tools to proactively and leverages implementations meet GitHub's • Advocates for design engineering • Sets and empowers team in
diagnose standard issues performance metrics to best practices that shape the adopting organizational practices

D es i gn Engi neer i ng | 5
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Design Engineering P3 (G8) Design Engineering P4 (G9) Design Engineering P5 (G10) Design Engineering P6 (G11) Design Engineering P7 (G12)
proactively and monitors implement optimization quality standards and scale organization's approach to in debugging and performance
performance metrics to identify opportunities. appropriately. customer-facing technology and optimization, ensuring git
optimization opportunities. • Identifies technical dependencies • Drives technical excellence trailblazes methodologies that solution integrity and sustained
• Documents front-end patterns and constraints early during the through expertise in debugging, define GitHub's interface design innovation.
and best practices while design phase, ensuring feasible performance optimization, and standards for years to come. • Constructs strategies to manage
conveying technical constraints solutions preserve design intent. accessibility standards across • Advancing organizational and the most complex technical
and possibilities to design • Defines and owns quality plans product boundaries. industry practices in debugging, dependencies, ensuring solutions
stakeholders. with success metrics (e.g., • Anticipates and resolves complex, performance optimization, and preserve and extend initial design
• Supports quality plans with accessibility, cross-team technical accessibility, setting long-term intent.
success metrics (e.g., accessibility, internationalization/localization, dependencies and constraints, technical direction across product • Sets uncompromising standards
internationalization/localization, user experience KPIs), measuring shaping strategies that preserve boundaries. for performance and accessibility,
user experience KPIs), and reporting progress. design intent. • Influences organizational strategy internationalization/localization,
contributing to the measurement • Raises the quality bar platform- by proactively anticipating and and craft, establishing
and reporting of progress. wide, establishes performance, resolving complex, cross-team comprehensive metrics and SLAs
budgets and success metrics (e.g., technical dependencies and to measure at scale.
accessibility, constraints, shaping long-term
internationalization/localization, approaches that preserve and
user experience KPIs), enforcing advance design intent.
quality standards via reviews and • Establishes non-negotiables for
governance. performance, accessibility,
internationalization/localization,
and craft, setting budgets/service
level agreements (SLAs) and
ensuring measurement at scale.
Design Engineering • Stays current with emerging • Learns and refines their thinking • Comes prepared with their • Partners with Design/Product/Engineering leadership to set org-level
Curiosity & Initiative front-end technologies and about, and ideates methods of opinion on and ideates methods strategy and technical vision for GitHub’s most complex UI and experience
design trends to continuously implementing emerging front-end of implementing emerging front- challenges.
learn and improve craft and help technologies and design practices end technologies and design • Proactively identifies opportunities to push boundaries before market
teams make informed that elevate the quality of their practices that elevate the demands arise.
implementation decisions. team's user experiences. organization's front-end direction.
• Stays current with front-end • Identifies and pursues
trends and begins to identify opportunities to push boundaries
opportunities to push boundaries in response to emerging product
in response to emerging product and market needs.
and market trends.

D es i gn Engi neer i ng | 6
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Design Engineering P3 (G8) Design Engineering P4 (G9) Design Engineering P5 (G10) Design Engineering P6 (G11) Design Engineering P7 (G12)
Design Engineering • Under guidance from • Inspires engineers/designers, • Mentors and uplevels designers • Elevates craft across the • Empowers high-performing
Leadership & Talent engineers/designers, supports leveling up cross-disciplinary and engineers across domains, organization, mentoring engineers and designers,
Management cross-disciplinary practices and practices and champion high- cultivating a community of senior/staff engineers and promoting a robust community of
front-end and design-system leverage front-end and design- practice around design systems designers, building communities practice and setting high craft
capabilities. system capabilities. and front-end excellence. of practice, and setting and innovation standards.
• Learns to support the production • Collaborates with designers and • Leads by example and mentors hiring/quality bars. • Champions innovative technical
of extensible, maintainable code engineers across domains to designers and engineers across • Guides team through demonstrations and proof-of-
that raises the bar for UI craft at facilitate the production of domains to produce extensible, groundbreaking technical concepts, positioning GitHub as a
GitHub. extensible, maintainable code that maintainable code that raises the demonstrations and proof-of- pioneer in developer experience
• Supports the development of raises the bar for UI craft at bar for UI craft at GitHub. concepts that inspire and AI.
standard quality plans by seeking GitHub. • Guides others in developing organizational change and • Fosters excellence across design
out guidance and direction from • Contributes to developing comprehensive quality plans with position GitHub as the industry and code intersections, mentoring
senior team members. standard quality plans with success metrics that scale across leader in developer experience design engineers to push the
success metrics that scale across the platform. and AI. boundaries of UI and design craft
the platform. • Establishes industry-leading best at GitHub.
practices for the intersection of
design and code, mentoring
design engineers and product
designers across the organization
to elevate craft excellence.

D es i gn Engi neer i ng | 7
Skills
Skill Key
1 Critical/Important and Required Upon Hire
2 Critical/Important and NOT Required Upon Hire
- Not Important/Critical
Skill Name Skill Definition P3 (G8) P4 (G9) P5 (G10) P6 (G11) P7 (G12)
Knowledge of accessibility standards, such as the Web Content Accessibility
Accessibility Technology Guidelines, and assistive technologies that are commonly used by people with 2 2 1 1 1
disabilities, such as NVDA, JAWS, and VoiceOver.
Knowledge of artificial intelligence and data science including machine learning,
Artificial Intelligence (AI) data mining, machine vision, search knowledge graphs, or natural language 2 2 1 1 1
processing.
The ability to apply knowledge about program coding to perform peer reviews of
computer source code with the intent to find and fix mistakes, find security
Code Review 2 1 1 1 1
loopholes, and correct inefficiencies overlooked in the initial development phase,
improving overall code quality.
The ability to work together in a cooperative effort to achieve a common goal.
Collaboration This may also include the promotion of teamwork and the linkage of intra and 1 1 1 1 1
interdepartmental cooperation.
The ability to understand and deliver information through a contextually
Communications appropriate medium that is tailored to the audience. This includes oral and 1 1 1 1 1
written communication in English for work matters.
The ability to manage conflict, disharmony, and strife among people and
Conflict Resolution 2 1 1 1 1
situations, while recognizing and addressing sensitivities.
The skill to influence others, develop and maintain working relationships, and
Consulting - 2 1 1 1
deliver results and/or expertise for a client in a professional manner.
The ability to apply ingenuity, inventiveness, and imagination to the inclusive
Creativity 1 1 1 1 1
design and construction of a product, service, program, or initiative.
The ability to communicate across teams, which consists of communicating
through various means. This includes presentations and other communication
Cross-team Communication - 1 1 1 1
methods to receive consensus, buy-in, or informing key stakeholders of current
process/project status.
The ability to make decisions in a fast-paced, rapidly changing environment. This
includes the ability to define, diagnose, and determine an appropriate resolution,
Decision Making 1 1 1 1 1
recommendation, or decision while considering alternatives and factors (e.g.,
resources, costs, tradeoffs).

D es i gn Engi neer i ng | 8
The ability to create and maintain a collection of reusable components,
guidelines, and best practices that ensure consistency, efficiency, and a cohesive
Design Systems user experience across products. This includes the ability to bridge design and 2 1 1 1 1
development by providing a shared language, allowing design engineers to build
high-quality, accessible, and performant user interfaces.
The ability to utilize a design thinking approach during the design process to
consider issues, retrieve information, and resolve problems. This includes the
Design Thinking 1 1 1 1 1
ability to match people's needs with technological feasibility and/or business
strategy that transfer into customer value and market opportunity.
Knowledge of and the ability to apply novel, emerging technology to GitHub's
Emerging Technologies - 1 1 1 1
products, services, and processes to create business value.
Knowledge of and the ability to utilize various front-end technologies (e.g.,
Front-End Development
including JavaScript/TypeScript, HTML/CSS) and modern frameworks (e.g., React, 1 1 1 1 1
Programming
Vue, Svelte).
The ability to design groupings of content, navigate between bodies of content,
Information Architecture and apply user experience when finding information among a large body of 1 1 1 1 1
content.
Knowledge of the design between users and products through interaction design.
Interaction Design 1 1 1 1 1
This includes understanding how to integrate user desires into product design.
The ability to navigate localization processes for content developed. This includes
adapting content's translation to a specific country or region to account for
Localization 2 2 1 1 1
differences in markets, geopolitical contexts, cultures, and wording (e.g., dialects,
idioms).
The ability to apply principles, systems, tools, and strategic insights to sustainably
Operational Excellence improve key performance indicator (KPI) metrics and drive operational - 1 1 1 1
efficiencies.
The ability to identify problems and review related information to develop and
Problem Solving 1 1 1 1 1
evaluate options and implement solutions.
Suggests and encourages generation of new ideas for existing processes, new
Process and Solution solutions based on customer needs, and changes to improve team culture.
- 1 1 1 1
Curiosity Champions creative solutions and proposes new ideas that can empower the
organization to lead and stay ahead of competition.
Knowledge of and the ability to carry out the process of planning, organizing, and
managing tasks and resources to accomplish a well-defined objective. This
Project Management includes the ability to manage and provide project deliverables, optimize the - 1 1 1 1
contribution of the people involved, and assess the impact of project decisions on
quality, productivity, schedules, cost, performance, etc.
The ability to manage project stakeholders and stakeholder engagements. This
Project Stakeholder
includes identifying stakeholders, prioritizing their concerns, managing - 1 1 1 1
Management
expectations, and planning and monitoring stakeholder engagements.

D es i gn Engi neer i ng | 9
Knowledge of and ability to develop prototypes in support of an iterative
Prototyping development/design process. This includes knowledge of and ability to assess 1 1 1 1 1
needs, create a prototype, and produce a model.
Knowledge of and the ability to follow systematic and continuing processes of
checking to see whether a product, service, or process is meeting specified
Quality Assurance 1 1 1 1 1
requirements. This includes knowledge of quality measurements and defined
standards.
The ability to analyze and recognize how a system's parts interrelate and how
sub-systems work over time within the context of larger systems. This includes
Systems Thinking 2 1 1 1 1
the ability to view systems with a broad perspective and identify overall
structures, patterns, and cycles.
The ability to adapt communications around different technologies, products, and
Technical Communication - 2 1 1 1
services to the audience's level of understanding.
The ability to use knowledge of user experience (UX), user experience design
(UXD, UED), or experience design (XD) to enhance user satisfaction with a
User Experience (UX) 1 1 1 1 1
product. This includes improving the usability and accessibility provided in the
interaction with the product.
The ability to use imagery, color, shapes, typography, and form to enhance
Visual Design 1 1 1 1 1
usability and user experiences.

