Job Family Group: Product
Job Family: Product Management
Job Profile: Product Management P5 (G10)
Last Updated: April 30th, 2025
What You Do
Job Profile Summary
Anticipates customers’ unmet or unknown needs and market opportunities for
enhancements or development and new products/services of multiple feature areas.
Serves as an expert in identifying data-informed, long-term or overall solution-level
investment opportunities, evaluating tradeoffs, and prioritizing investments in consultation
with cross organizational partners for multiple feature areas. Influences and drives
engagement with cross-functional internal partnerships, external partners, including early
adopting customers, senior leadership, and other key stakeholders to gather input and
garner support for product/service vision, strategy, and roadmap for multiple feature
areas across divisional boundaries. Defines the feature set and partners with Design teams
to connect multiple design factors. Owns and drives the roadmap for the multiple feature
areas. Collaborates with partner team to build golden configurations and leads scenario
walkthroughs and thought exercises to identify problems, system friction, and needed
contingencies in advance of early customer adoption for multiple feature areas.
Collaborates with Product Marketing, Business Planning, and Engineering to identify
product release criteria, customer acquisition, usage, retention, and monetization
strategies. Helps identify and execute on opportunities to evangelize the feature areas they
work on with internal and external stakeholders, partners, analysts, and customers in the
industry via presentations, blog posts, social media, and other forums.
Responsibilities
Analysis of Customer and Market Signals
● Anticipates customers’ unmet or unknown needs and market opportunities for
enhancements or development and new products/services of multiple feature
areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional boundaries via quantitative (e.g.,
usage, telemetry) and qualitative analyses (e.g., customer usage, various listening
systems, feedback channels of market and industry trends), looks for patterns in
the data across a portfolio, and scopes the impact and prioritization of a problem.
Brings together internal and external customer groups around a specific scenario
and engages in direct 1:1 (e.g., visits, interviews) or many (e.g., social media, events)
customer engagements to solicit feedback and understand their experiences with
GitHub’s products and services using industry-accepted methods. Acts as a subject

matter expert in performing market or user research in collaboration with the User
Research team, conducting competitive analyses, and examining market and
industry trends, as well as industry-specific requirements or regulations. Shares
insights with senior internal/external stakeholders and internal team to ensure
cross-team alignment. Leads contract negotiations and partnerships across the
organization and company-wide alignment. Assesses acquisition targets to
enhance the migration offering.
● Demonstrates and builds experiences to solve unmet user needs across divisional
boundaries. Leads process of defining problems and incubating solutions for a team
or organization. Understands the broader ecosystem of GitHub products and where
to leverage capabilities and functionalities across the ecosystem. Coaches and
mentors internal team to develop problem statements and forms hypotheses of
new feature areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional boundaries to address
highly complex customer needs and/or market opportunities. Identifies
dependencies of other feature areas. Performs experiments to test hypotheses and
inform decisions on what new feature areas (e.g., product, service) to introduce
across divisional boundaries. Establishes clarity of patterns of root problem and
how it relates with previously seen trends across customers, determines the
customers/sectors impacted, foresees future opportunities, and uses research
evidence to influence feature prioritization. Ensures alignment between the
customer, the market, internal stakeholders, senior leadership, and the goals and
strategy of GitHub. Collaborates with others (e.g., Software Engineering [SWE],
Hardware Engineering [HWE], Product Marketing, Design) to ensure that they can
satisfy customer requirements. Validates the market size, explores new
opportunities to determine products or features of greatest value, and collaborates
with other teams (e.g., Finance) to build the Long Range Plan (LRP). Defines solution
options across multiple feature areas across divisional boundaries (e.g., product,
service). Partners with SWE, HWE, and senior colleagues on other teams in
refinement sessions to synthesize hypothesis results into solutions tied with
Objectives and Key Results (OKRs) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) progress.
Resolves alignment issues, contributes to portfolio level solutions, and drives
cross-functional clarity with senior leadership.
Product/Service Definition
● Works across multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional
boundaries. Defines or influences the long-term vision and strategy for the feature
areas based on a deep understanding of customer needs, market and user
research, the competitive landscape, and GitHub’s business goals and strategy.
Writes the product framing memo or strategy documents and reviews with senior
leaders. Distills the vision and strategy into a product roadmap. Creates user stories
and epics to convey the big picture. Leverages a deep understanding of the product
architecture to design end-to-end scenarios. Collaborates with others (e.g.,
Business Planning, Finance, Support, Customers, Product Marketing) to identify the
potential customer base. Communicates product strategy to internal and external
customers and builds consensus through multiple methods (e.g., conference
presentations, collaboration with partner organizations). Develops a thesis around
packaging, pricing, and monetizability of new and existing features and collaborates
with Business Planning and Pricing teams to ratify and execute pricing and

packaging changes. Owns the definition of product user personas and collaborates
with Product Marketing to jointly develop Ideal Customer Profile (ICP) and product
buyer personas, including geographic, industry vertical, or company size
segmentation as appropriate.
● Defines and evangelizes others around driving significant business impact across
the organization and tracking success criteria and performance metrics (e.g.,
Objectives and Key Results [OKRs], Key Performance Indicators [KPIs] such as
engagement, usage, acquisition, revenue, profitability, and in-project features) and
provides clarity on the fundamentals (e.g., quality, privacy, security, compliance,
accessibility, cost of goods sold [COGS]) of multiple feature areas (e.g., product,
service) across divisional boundaries. Works with Software Engineering (SWE) and
Hardware Engineering (HWE) to identify needed data and ensure needed telemetry
is developed and obtains it responsibly and compliantly. Reports and explicates
reasons for outcomes and drives decision making thereafter. Deeply understands
the COGS of multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional
boundaries and the KPIs that will help improve profitability. Performs advanced
insights analyses (e.g., customer acquisition, customer retention). Identifies OKRs
for multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional boundaries and
ensures alignment of the product with organization-level OKRs. Determines the
value of the multiple feature areas to the business, aligns success criteria, and
measures success. Selects appropriate candidate metrics for defining success of
products or features as well as numerical targets and measurement time horizons.
Regularly tracks and reports on metric performance during the evaluation period.
Uses product and feature performance metrics in prioritization and necessary level
of investment or disinvestment as necessary. Works with Sales to define potential
ROI of new investments including payback period and rate of return.
● Serves as an expert in identifying data-informed, long-term or overall solution-
level investment opportunities, evaluating tradeoffs, and prioritizing investments in
consultation with cross organizational partners for multiple feature areas (e.g.,
product, service) across divisional boundaries. Considers buy vs. build vs.
partnership alternatives for resource acquisition in investment decisions and works
with Business Development/Corporate Development as needed to fully evaluate
options. Guides others to determine the features or experiences to prioritize in the
roadmap that will support achievement of success criteria and Objectives and Key
Results (OKRs).
● Influences and drives engagement with cross-functional internal partnerships,
external partners, including early adopting customers, senior leadership, and other
key stakeholders to gather input and garner support for product/service vision,
strategy, and roadmap for multiple feature areas across divisional boundaries.
Provides thought leadership and is sought out to address questions and challenges
from group managers and other leaders. Rallies the team around a common vision.
Collaborates to gain buy in and alignment. Secures buy in from senior leadership
for product vision and strategy for multiple feature areas across organizational
boundaries. Advocates for priorities and resources needed to deliver desired
outcomes for multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional
boundaries. Partners to rally others around shared priorities. Balances listening and
sharing of information to obtain alignment.

Product/Service Development
● Defines the feature set and partners with Design teams to connect multiple design
factors (e.g., visual design, user experience [UX], application programming
interfaces [APIs], hardware design) to desired functionality and product vision.
Iterates multiple designs with Design, Software Engineering (SWE) and Hardware
Engineering (HWE). Leverages preexisting design patterns to inform current design
iterations and establish a cohesive design approach. Explores ways that preexisting
and current designs within product areas can have a broader impact for multiple
parties (e.g., GitHub, external/internal customers). Anticipates, reviews, and helps
resolve interoperability challenges between different components or layers in the
stack (e.g., UX and API layer differences). Develops strategy for designs in the
related areas. Facilitates senior-level reviews (e.g., UX, system designs, data
designs) with customers (e.g., regulators, engineers, policy makers, business-
decision makers) to determine usability and ensure accessibility criteria and
updated designs meet customer goals.
● Owns and drives the roadmap for the multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service)
they own across divisional boundaries. Prioritizes the backlog, works with Software
Engineering (SWE) and Hardware Engineering (HWE) to align on tradeoffs for the
multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) they own across divisional
boundaries, partners with Product Marketing on the disclosure of the roadmap, and
ensures dependencies are identified and accounted for. Takes in new inputs and
adapts as necessary. Influences and lands difficult tradeoffs with peers and
manages the team through it. Drives direction between customer needs and what
is developed on the roadmap so that a series of problems can be addressed over
time. Ensures alignment between the roadmap for the multiple features (e.g.,
product, service) across divisional boundaries and Objective and Key Results
(OKRs) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
● Collaborates with partner team to build golden configurations and leads scenario
walkthroughs and thought exercises to identify problems, system friction, and
needed contingencies in advance of early customer adoption for multiple feature
areas (e.g., product, service) across organizational boundaries. Provides test
demonstrations to leadership team around product/service areas. Shares feature
previews or roadmap with customers to drive engagement and to gather feedback
and customer telemetry in conjunction with others (e.g., Business Development,
Sales, End Consumers, User Research). Collaborates with Software Engineering
(SWE), Hardware Engineering (HWE), and Scientists to synthesize, prioritize, and
address feedback for improvement.
Go To Market
● Collaborates with Product Marketing, Business Planning, and Engineering to identify
product release criteria, customer acquisition, usage, retention, and monetization
strategies. Helps scale Product Marketing teams by building marketing and roll-out
plans and/or content such as product overviews, blogs, and landing pages for
individual features or smaller products that ladder up to marketing plans for an
overall product solution area. Creates and drives strategy for taking the multiple
feature areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional boundaries from private
preview to public preview and then to general availability. Begins to orchestrate the
creation of customer support plans (e.g., frequently asked questions [FAQs],

scripts), change management, and communication plans. Leads the development
of durable processes to provide input to other systems.
● Helps identify and execute on opportunities to evangelize the feature areas they
work on with internal and external stakeholders, partners, analysts, and customers
in the industry via presentations, blog posts, social media, and other forums.
Connects feature or product level performance to customer value drivers such as
cost reduction, risk reduction, or improved productivity and collaborates with
Product Marketing to effectively deliver compelling value propositions to senior
leaders. Presents at Executive Briefing Centers (EBCs) and large industry/company
events. Acts as a primary interface and collaborates with Product Marketing to
educate on the product and develop content.
Product/Service Performance
● Provides expertise to partner with others (e.g., Data Science, Software Engineering
[SWE], Hardware Engineering [HWE], User Research) to collect performance
metrics (e.g., key performance indicators [KPIs] such as engagement, usage,
acquisition, revenue, and in-project features), monitor and report on progress (e.g.,
business reviews), and derive deep insights and drives productive courses of action
across teams to improve product/feature development, iteration, and
implementation. Leverages customer listening systems, telemetry, engagements
(e.g., interviews, surveys), etc., to develop insights on product performance and
customer needs. Shares insights with SWE, HWE, and other partners. Forms
hypotheses to complex technical needs, performs experiments, iterates, and tests
to drive improvement/adoption in specific performance metrics that have broad
impact on multiple areas. Manages the overall product lifecycle of their area
including sunsetting/discontinuation of products and features as necessary.
● Builds trust with a targeted selection of customers across sectors. Orchestrates a
line of communication with complex and advanced customers to capture feedback
and insights through the product development lifecycle. Ensures the vision is
aligned with customer goals. Participates in customer communities and customer
engagement programs and responds to real-time customer feedback in online
portals. Understands and drives improvements in the support process, including
both forums and communities.
What You Need
Qualifications
Required/Minimum Qualifications
● 8+ years experience in product/service/project/program management, software
development, product design, or related field
OR Bachelor's Degree in related field AND 6+ years experience in
o
product/service/project/program management, software development,
product design, or related field
OR equivalent experience.
o

Additional or Preferred Qualifications
● Master’s Degree in Business, Marketing, or related field AND 10+ years experience
in product/service/project/program management, software development, product
design, or related field.
How You Do It
Skills
Business Acumen and Customer and Partner Product Development and
Insights Relationship Management Lifecycle Management
● Financial Acumen ● Executive Presence ● Product Lifecycle
● GitHub Products ● Trusted Partner Status ● Product Specification
Knowledge Data Driven Decision ● Product Strategy
● Technical Domain Making and Problem ● User Experience (UX)
Knowledge and Skills Solving Project and Program
Communication and ● Agility Management
Influence ● Competitive Analysis ● Cross-functional Team
● Conflict Resolution ● Creativity Leadership
● Influence Others ● Customer Research ● Multi-Initiative Program
● Negotiation ● Data Analysis Management
● Persuasion/Storytelling ● Decision Making ● Project Cost
● Product Evangelism ● Judgement ● Project Management
● Technical ● Key Performance ● Business Relationship
Communication Indicator (KPI) Management
Application ● Project Stakeholder
● Return on Investment Management
Analysis
● Strategic Thinking
Internal Use Only: Culture and Values
● Learn more about GitHub's Culture (Mission, Values, etc.)
● Learn more about our Values
● Learn more about our Leadership Principles

