Job Family Group: Product
Job Family: Product Management
Job Profile: Product Management P6 (G11)
Last Updated: April 30th, 2025
What You Do
Job Profile Summary
Identifies customers’ unmet or unknown needs for complex situations, influencing
stakeholders and other team members while bringing them along and marketing
opportunities for enhancements or development and new services of multiple feature
areas. Demonstrates and builds experiences to solve unmet user needs across divisional
boundaries. Works across multiple feature areas. Defines and evangelizes others around
business impact and performance metrics. Serves as an expert in identifying data-
informed, long-term investment opportunities, and prioritizing investments in consultation
across multiple cross organizational partners for multiple feature areas. Influences and
drives engagement with cross-functional internal partners, external partners, including
early adopting customers, senior leadership, and other key stakeholders to gather input
and garner support for product/service vision, strategy, and roadmap for multiple features
across divisional boundaries. Owns and drives the roadmap for the multiple feature areas.
Collaborates with partner team to build golden configurations and leads and models
scenario walkthroughs and thought exercises to identify problems, system friction, and
needed contingencies in advance of early customer adoption for multiple feature areas.
Executes on major opportunities to evangelize the feature areas they work on with internal
and external stakeholders, partners, analysts, and customers in the industry via
presentations, and other forums.
Responsibilities
Analysis of Customer and Market Signals
● Identifies customers’ unmet or unknown needs for complex situations, influencing
stakeholders and other team members while bringing them along, gaining buy in,
and marketing opportunities for enhancements or development and new
products/services of multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional
boundaries via quantitative (e.g., usage, telemetry) and qualitative analyses (e.g.,
customer usage, various listening systems, feedback channels of market and
industry trends), looks for patterns in the data across a portfolio, and scopes the
impact and prioritization of a problem. Brings together internal and external
customer groups around a specific scenario and engages in direct 1:1 (e.g., visits,
interviews) or many (e.g., social media, events) customer engagements to solicit

feedback and understand their experiences with GitHub’s products and services
using industry-accepted methods. Acts as a subject matter expert and provides
guidance to others performing market or user research in collaboration with the
User Research team, conducting competitive analyses, and examining market and
industry trends, as well as industry-specific requirements or regulations. Shares
insights with senior internal/external stakeholders and internal team to ensure
cross-team alignment. Drives contract negotiations and partnership across the
organization and company-wide alignment. Assesses acquisition targets to
enhance the migration offering.
● Demonstrates and builds experiences to solve unmet user needs across divisional
boundaries. Leads process of defining problems and incubating solutions for
company-wide initiatives. Owns clarity and definition of problem statements and
forms hypotheses of new multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across
divisional boundaries to address crucial customer needs and/or market
opportunities. Identifies dependencies of other feature areas. Performs experiments
to test hypotheses and inform decisions on what new feature areas (e.g., product,
service) to introduce across divisional boundaries. Establishes clarity of patterns of
root problem and how it relates with previously seen trends across customers,
determines the customers/sectors impacted, and uses research evidence to
influence feature prioritization. Ensures and drives alignment between the
customer, the market, internal stakeholders, senior leadership, and the goals and
strategy of GitHub. Collaborates with others (e.g., Software Engineering [SWE],
Hardware Engineering [HWE], Product Marketing, Design) to ensure that they can
satisfy customer requirements. Validates the market size and opportunity to
determine products or features of greatest value, and collaborates with other
teams (e.g., Finance) to build the Long-Range Plan (LRP). Defines solution options
across multiple feature areas across divisional boundaries (e.g., product, service).
Partners with SWE, HWE, and senior colleagues across the organization in
refinement sessions to synthesize hypothesis results into solutions tied with
Objectives and Key Results (OKRs) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) progress.
Resolves large or complex alignment issues, contributes to portfolio level solutions,
and drives cross-functional clarity with senior leadership.
Product/Service Definition
● Works across multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional
boundaries. Defines or influences the long-term vision and strategy for the feature
areas based on a deep understanding of customer needs, market and user
research, the competitive landscape, and GitHub’s business goals and strategy.
Owns the product framing memo or strategy documents and reviews with senior
leaders. Distills the vision and strategy into a product roadmap. Creates user stories
and epics to convey the big picture. Leverages a deep understanding of the product
architecture to design end-to-end scenarios. Collaborates with others (e.g.,
Business Planning, Finance, Support, Customers, Product Marketing) to identify the
potential customer base. Communicates product strategy to internal and external
customers and builds consensus through multiple methods (e.g., conference
presentations, collaboration with partner organizations). Develops a thesis around
packaging, pricing, and monetizability of new and existing features and collaborates
with Business Planning and Pricing teams to ratify and execute pricing and

packaging changes. Owns the definition of product user personas and collaborates
with Product Marketing to jointly develop Ideal Customer Profile (ICP) and product
buyer personas, including geographic, industry vertical, or company size
segmentation as appropriate.
● Defines and evangelizes others around business impact, success criteria, and
performance metrics (e.g., Objectives and Key Results [OKRs], Key Performance
Indicators [KPIs] such as engagement, usage, acquisition, revenue, profitability, and
in-project features) and fundamentals (e.g., quality, privacy, security, compliance,
accessibility, cost of goods sold [COGS]) of multiple features areas (e.g., product,
service) across divisional boundaries. Works with Software Engineering (SWE) and
Hardware Engineering (HWE) to identify needed data and ensure needed telemetry
is developed and obtains it responsibly and compliantly. Reports and explicates
reasons for outcomes and drives decision making thereafter. Deeply understands
the COGS of multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional
boundaries and the KPIs that will help improve profitability. Performs advanced
insights analyses (e.g., customer acquisition, customer retention). Defines analytic
processes and drives them across GitHub. Determines the value of the multiple
feature areas to the business, aligns success criteria, and measures success.
Ensures the ultimate goal is aligned for portfolios. Selects appropriate candidate
metrics for defining success of products or features as well as numerical targets
and measurement time horizons. Regularly tracks and reports on metric
performance during the evaluation period. Uses product and feature performance
metrics in prioritization and necessary level of investment or disinvestment as
necessary. Works with Sales to define potential ROI of new investments including
payback period and rate of return.
● Serves as an expert in identifying data-informed, long-term investment
opportunities, evaluating tradeoffs, and prioritizing investments in consultation
across multiple cross organizational partners for multiple feature areas (e.g.,
product, service) across divisional boundaries. Considers buy vs. build vs.
partnership alternatives for resource acquisition in investment decisions and works
with Business Development/Corporate Development as needed to fully evaluate
options. Guides others to determine the features or experiences to prioritize in the
roadmap that will support achievement of success criteria and Objectives and Key
Results (OKRs).
● Influences and drives engagement with cross-functional internal partners, external
partners, including early adopting customers, senior leadership, and other key
stakeholders to gather input and garner support for product/service vision,
strategy, and roadmap for multiple features across divisional boundaries. Provides
deep thought leadership and is sought out to address questions and challenges
from group managers and other leaders. Contributes to, defines, and unites others
around the product vision. Collaborates to gain buy in and alignment. Secures buy
in from senior leadership for product vision and strategy for multiple feature areas
across divisional boundaries. Advocates for priorities and resources needed to
deliver desired outcomes for multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across
divisional boundaries. Rallies others around shared priorities. Leads senior
leadership to new product vision and strategies.

Product/Service Development
● Defines the feature set and leads partnership with Design teams to connect
multiple design factors (e.g., visual design, user experience [UX], application
programming interfaces [APIs], hardware design) to desired functionality and
product vision. Iterates multiple designs with Design, Software Engineering (SWE)
and Hardware Engineering (HWE). Leverages preexisting design patterns to inform
current design iterations and establish a cohesive design approach. Explores and
advocates for ways that preexisting and current designs within product areas can
have a broader impact for multiple parties (e.g., GitHub, external/internal
customers). Anticipates, reviews, and helps resolve interoperability challenges
between different components or layers in the stack (e.g., UX and API layer
differences). Develops comprehensive strategy for designs in the related areas.
Facilitates senior-level reviews (e.g., UX, system designs, data designs) with
customers (e.g., regulators, engineers, policy makers, business-decision makers) to
determine usability and ensure accessibility criteria and updated designs meet
customer goals.
● Owns and drives the roadmap for the multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service)
they own across divisional boundaries. Prioritizes the backlog, works with Software
Engineering (SWE) and Hardware Engineering (HWE) to align on tradeoffs for the
multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) they own across divisional
boundaries, partners with Product Marketing on the disclosure of the roadmap, and
ensures dependencies are identified and accounted for. Takes in new inputs and
adapts as necessary. Influences and lands difficult tradeoffs with peers and
manages the team through it. Drives the long-term direction between customer
needs and what is developed on the roadmap so that a series of problems can be
addressed over time. Ensures alignment between the roadmap for the multiple
features (e.g., product, service) across divisional boundaries and Objective and Key
Results (OKRs) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
● Collaborates with partner team to build golden configurations and leads and
models scenario walkthroughs and thought exercises to identify problems, system
friction, and needed contingencies in advance of early customer adoption for
multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across divisional boundaries. Provides
test demonstrations at division-wide, all-hands meetings around product/service
areas. Shares feature previews or roadmap with customers to drive engagement
and to gather feedback and customer telemetry in conjunction with others (e.g.,
Business Development, Sales, End Consumers, User Research). Builds systems and
streamlines processes to channel feedback and suggestions with Software
Engineering (SWE), Hardware Engineering (HWE), and Scientists for improvement.
Go To Market
● Acts as a subject matter expert and collects and includes different views when
collaborating with Product Marketing, Business Planning, and Engineering to identify
product release criteria, customer acquisition, usage, retention, and monetization
strategies. May help scale Product Marketing teams by providing strategic guidance
to build marketing and roll-out plans and/or content such as product overviews,
blogs, and landing pages for individual features or smaller products that ladder up
to marketing plans for an overall product solution area. Drives long-term vision and
strategy for taking the multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) across

divisional boundaries from private preview to public preview and then to general
availability. Orchestrates the creation of customer support plans (e.g., frequently
asked questions [FAQs], scripts), change management, and communication plans.
Drives durable processes to provide input to other systems.
● Executes on major opportunities to evangelize the feature areas they work on with
internal and external stakeholders, partners, analysts, and customers in the industry
via presentations, blog posts, social media, and other forums. Connects feature or
product level performance to customer value drivers such as cost reduction, risk
reduction, or improved productivity and collaborates with Product Marketing to
effectively deliver compelling value propositions to senior leaders. Presents at
Executive Briefing Centers (EBCs) and large industry/company events. Acts as a
primary interface and collaborates with Product Marketing to educate on the
product and develop content.
Product/Service Performance
● Serves as an expert to partner with others (e.g., Data Science, Software Engineering
[SWE], Hardware Engineering [HWE], User Research) to collect performance
metrics (e.g., key performance indicators [KPIs] such as engagement, usage,
acquisition, revenue, and in-project features), monitor and report on progress (e.g.,
business reviews), and derive deep insights and drives productive courses of action
across teams to improve product/feature development, iteration, and
implementation. Leverages customer listening systems, telemetry, engagements
(e.g., interviews, surveys), etc., to develop insights on product performance and
customer needs. Shares insights with SWE, HWE, and other partners. Forms
hypotheses to crucial technical needs, performs experiments, iterates, and tests to
drive improvement/adoption in specific performance metrics that have broad
impact on GitHub and industry wide. Owns the overall product lifecycle of their
area including sunsetting/discontinuation of products and features as necessary.
● Builds trust with a targeted selection of customers across sectors. Orchestrates a
line of communication with complex and advanced customers to capture feedback
and insights through the product development lifecycle. Ensures the vision is
aligned with customer goals. Participates in customer communities and customer
engagement programs and responds to real-time customer feedback in online
portals. Understands and drives improvements in the support process, including
both forums and communities.
What You Need
Qualifications
Required/Minimum Qualifications
● 10+ years experience in product/service/project/program management, software
development, product design, or related field
OR Bachelor's Degree in related field AND 8+ years experience in
o
product/service/project/program management, software development,
product design, or related field

OR equivalent experience.
o
Additional or Preferred Qualifications
● Master’s Degree in Business, Marketing, or related field AND 13+ years experience
in product/service/project/program management, software development, product
design, or related field.
How You Do It
Skills
Business Acumen and Customer and Partner Product Development and
Insights Relationship Management Lifecycle Management
● Financial Acumen ● Executive Presence ● Product Lifecycle
● GitHub Products ● Trusted Partner Status ● Product Specification
Knowledge Data Driven Decision ● Product Strategy
● Technical Domain Making and Problem ● User Experience (UX)
Knowledge and Skills Solving Project and Program
Communication and ● Agility Management
Influence ● Competitive Analysis ● Cross-functional Team
● Conflict Resolution ● Creativity Leadership
● Influence Others ● Customer Research ● Multi-Initiative Program
● Negotiation ● Data Analysis Management
● Persuasion/Storytelling ● Decision Making ● Project Cost
● Product Evangelism ● Judgement ● Project Management
● Technical ● Key Performance ● Business Relationship
Communication Indicator (KPI) Management
Application ● Project Stakeholder
● Return on Investment Management
Analysis
● Strategic Thinking
Internal Use Only: Culture and Values
● Learn more about GitHub's Culture (Mission, Values, etc.)
● Learn more about our Values
● Learn more about our Leadership Principles

