Job Family Group: Product
Job Family: Product Management
Job Profile: Product Management M3 (G8)
Last Updated: April 30th, 2025
What You Do
Job Profile Summary
Helps teams identify customers’ unmet or unknown needs and market opportunities for
enhancement and development of feature(s)/feature areas. Leads teams to demonstrate
and build experiences to solve unmet user needs. Leads teams who work across multiple
feature(s)/feature areas. Owns and coaches teams in driving business impact across the
organization and tracking success criteria and performance metrics. Leads teams in
identifying data-informed, long-term investment opportunities, and prioritizing
investments in consultation with cross-functional partners for feature(s)/feature areas.
Leads teams to engage with cross-functional internal partners, external partners including
early adopting customers, senior leadership, and other key stakeholders to gather input
and garner support for product/service vision, strategy, and roadmap for
feature(s)/feature areas. Defines and coaches teams in defining the feature(s) or feature
set and guides them to partner with Design teams to connect multiple design factors.
Supervises collaboration with Product Marketing, Business Planning, and Engineering, to
identify product release criteria, customer acquisition, usage, retention and monetization
strategies. Guides teams to evangelize the feature(s)/feature areas they work on with
internal and external stakeholders and customers in the industry via presentations, and
other forums. In addition, this role has people management responsibilities including
driving employee growth and development, executing projects, and managing
performance.
Responsibilities
Analysis of Customer and Market Signals
● Helps teams identify customers’ unmet or unknown needs and market
opportunities for enhancement and development of feature(s)/feature areas (e.g.,
product, service) via quantitative (e.g., usage, telemetry) and qualitative analyses
(e.g., customer usage, various listening systems, feedback channels of market and
industry trends), looks for patterns in the data across a portfolio, and scopes the
impact and prioritization of a problem. Leads teams to bring together internal and
external customer groups and engage in direct 1:1 (e.g., visits, interviews) or many
(e.g., social media, events) customer engagements to solicit feedback and
understand their experiences with GitHub’s products and services using industry

accepted methods. Helps teams to perform market or user research in
collaboration with the User Research team, conduct competitive analyses, and
examine market and industry trends as well as industry specific requirements or
regulations. Leads teams to share insights with senior internal/external
stakeholders and internal team to ensure cross-team alignment.
● Leads teams to demonstrate and build experiences to solve unmet user needs.
Guides and coaches teams to develop problem statements and form hypotheses of
new feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product, service) to address complex customer
needs and/or market opportunities. Identifies dependencies of other feature areas.
Helps teams perform experiments to test hypotheses and inform decisions on what
new feature areas to introduce. Establishes clarity of patterns of root problem and
how it relates with previously seen trends across customers, determines the
customers/sectors impacted, and provides research evidence to determine
priorities. Determines and leads process improvements to quickly scope insights.
Uses industry understanding to direct teams to ensure alignment between the
customer, the market, and the goals and strategy of GitHub. Holds teams
accountable for collaborating with others (e.g., Software Engineering [SWE],
Hardware Engineering [HWE], Product Marketing, Design) to ensure that they can
satisfy customer requirements. Coaches teams to validate the market size and
opportunity to determine products or features of greatest value. Leads teams in
defining solution options across feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product, service).
Engages team to partners with Software Engineering [SWE], Hardware Engineering
[HWE], and senior colleagues on other teams in refinement sessions to synthesize
hypothesis results into solutions tied with Objectives and Key Results (OKRs) and
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) progress.
Product/Service Definition
● Leads teams who work across multiple feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product,
service). Coaches teams to define and influence the long-term vision and strategy
for the feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product, service) based on a deep
understanding of customer needs, market and user research, the competitive
landscape, and GitHub’s business goals and strategy. Leads teams to write the
product framing/vision memo. Helps teams to make feature-centric contributions
to the vision and strategy into a product roadmap. Assists teams to create user
stories and epics to convey the big picture. Helps teams leverage a deep
understanding of the product architecture to design end-to-end scenarios. Guides
teams to collaborate with others (e.g., Business Planning, Finance, Support,
Customers, Product Marketing) to identify the potential customer base.
Communicates product strategy to internal and external customers and builds
consensus through multiple methods (e.g., conference presentations, collaboration
with partner organizations). Supports the team's efforts around packaging, pricing,
and monetizability of new and existing features and collaborates with Business
Planning and Pricing teams to ratify and execute pricing and packaging changes.
● Owns and coaches teams in driving business impact across the organization and
tracking success criteria and performance metrics (e.g., Objectives and Key Results
[OKRs], Key Performance Indicators [KPIs] such as engagement, usage, acquisition,
revenue, project features) of the feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product, service).
Works with Software Engineering (SWE) and Hardware Engineering (HWE) to

identify needed data and ensure needed telemetry is developed and obtains it
responsibly and compliantly. Coaches team in reporting and explicating reasons for
outcomes. Helps teams deeply understand the cost of goods sold (COGS) of the
feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product, service) and the KPIs that will help improve
profitability. Takes ownership of team metric outcomes and drives team alignment
around key criteria and performance metrics with their organization's goals.
Coaches team in identifying OKRs for feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product,
service) and ensures alignment with product-level OKRs. Ensures processes (e.g.,
dashboards, trigger criteria) to monitor the data are in place and being adhered to.
Determines the value of the feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product, service) to the
business, aligns success criteria, and measures success. Helps select appropriate
candidate metrics for defining success of products or features as well as numerical
targets and measurement time horizons. Uses product and feature performance
metrics in prioritization and necessary level of investment or disinvestment as
necessary.
● Leads teams in identifying data-informed, long-term investment opportunities,
evaluating tradeoffs, and prioritizing investments in consultation with cross-
functional partners for feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product, service). Helps teams
determine the features or experiences to prioritize in the roadmap that will support
achievement of success criteria and Objectives and Key Results (OKRs).
● Leads teams to engage with cross-functional internal partners, external partners
including early adopting customers, senior leadership, and other key stakeholders
to gather input and garner support for product/service vision, strategy, and
roadmap for feature(s)/feature areas. Anticipates push back and addresses it
appropriately using product expertise and data while handling challenging
feedback. Guides teams to collaborate to gain buy in and alignment. Holds teams
accountable for soliciting input regarding priorities and resources needed to deliver
desired outcomes for feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product, service).
Product/Service Development
● Defines and coaches teams in defining the feature(s) or feature set and guides them
to partner with Design teams to connect multiple design factors (e.g., visual design,
user experience [UX], application programming interfaces [APIs], hardware design)
to desired functionality and product vision. Directs teams to iterate multiple designs
with Design, Software Engineering (SWE) and Hardware Engineering (HWE). Leads
teams to leverage preexisting design patterns to inform current design iterations
and establish a cohesive design approach. Leads team to anticipate interoperability
challenges between different components or layers in the stack (e.g., UX and API
layer differences). Leads team to facilitate reviews (UX, system designs, data
designs) with customers (e.g., regulators, engineers, policy makers, business
decision makers) to determine usability and ensure accessibility criteria and
updated designs meet customer goals.
● Guides teams owning the roadmap for their feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product,
service). Leads teams to prioritize the backlog, work with Software Engineering
(SWE) and Hardware Engineering (HWE) to align on tradeoffs for the
feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product, service) they own, and partner with
Marketing on the disclosure of the roadmap. Directs teams to take in new inputs
and adapt as necessary. Helps team assess the performance and metrics and adjust

strategy and roadmap accordingly. Helps teams influence and land difficult
tradeoffs with peers and manage the team through it. Leads teams to ensure a line
between customer needs and what is developed on the roadmap so that a series of
problems can be addressed over time. Leads teams to ensure alignment between
the roadmap for the feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product, service) and Objective
and Key Results (OKRs) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
● Leads teams to build golden configurations and drive scenario walkthroughs and
thought exercises to identify problems, system friction, and needed contingencies
in advance of early customer adoption for feature(s)/feature areas (e.g., product,
service). Directs teams to share feature previews or roadmap with customers to
drive engagement and to gather feedback and customer telemetry in conjunction
with others (e.g., Business Development, Sales, End Consumers, User Research).
Leads teams to collaborate with Software Engineering (SWE), Hardware
Engineering (HWE), and Scientists to synthesize, prioritize, and address feedback
for improvement.
Go To Market
● Supervises collaboration with Product Marketing, Business Planning, and
Engineering, to identify product release criteria, customer acquisition, usage,
retention and monetization strategies. Oversees partnership with Product
Marketing teams by helping build marketing and roll-out plans and/or content such
as product overviews, blogs, and landing pages for individual features or smaller
products that ladder up to marketing plans for an overall product solution area.
Supervises team to develop strategy for taking the group of features or feature
areas (e.g., product, service) from private preview to public preview and then to
general availability. Trains teams to create customer support plans (e.g., frequently
asked questions [FAQs], scripts), change management, and communication plans.
● Guides teams to evangelize the feature(s)/feature areas they work on with internal
and external stakeholders, analysts, partners, and customers in the industry via
presentations, blog posts, social media, and other forums. Coaches teams
presenting at Executive Briefing Centers (EBCs), as well as small and large
industry/company events. Ensures teams act as a primary interface with Product
Marketing to educate on the product and develop content.
Product/Service Performance
● Guides teams to partner with others (e.g., Data Science, Software Engineering
[SWE], Hardware Engineering [HWE], User Research) to collect performance
metrics (e.g., key performance indicators [KPIs] such as engagement, usage,
acquisition, revenue, and in project features), monitor and report on progress (e.g.,
business reviews), and derive insights and drives productive courses of action to
improve product/feature development, iteration, and implementation. Guides
teams to leverage customer listening systems, telemetry, engagements (e.g.,
interviews, surveys), etc., to develop insights on product performance and
customer needs. Ensures teams share insights with SWE, HWE, and other partners.
Coaches teams to form hypotheses to technical needs, perform experiments,
iterate, and test to drive improvement/adoption in specific performance metrics.
● Leads teams to build trust with a targeted selection of customers. Helps teams
orchestrate a line of communication with complex and advanced customers to

capture feedback and insights through the product development lifecycle. Coaches
team to manage customer communities and customer engagement programs.
Encourages teams respond to real-time customer feedback in online portals.
Coaches teams to understand and drive improvements in the support process,
including both forums and communities.
What You Need
Qualifications
Required/Minimum Qualifications
● 4+ years experience in product/service/project/program management, software
development, product design, or related field
OR Bachelor's Degree in related field AND 2+ years experience in
o
product/service/project/program management, software development,
product design, or related field
OR equivalent experience.
o
Additional or Preferred Qualifications
● 1+ year(s) people management experience.

How You Do It
Skills
Business Acumen and Customer and Partner Product Development and
Insights Relationship Management Lifecycle Management
● Financial Acumen ● Executive Presence ● Product Lifecycle
● GitHub Products ● Trusted Partner Status ● Product Specification
Knowledge Data Driven Decision ● Product Strategy
● Technical Domain Making and Problem ● User Experience (UX)
Knowledge and Skills Solving Project and Program
Communication and ● Agility Management
Influence ● Competitive Analysis ● Cross-functional Team
● Conflict Resolution ● Creativity Leadership
● Influence Others ● Customer Research ● Multi-Initiative Program
● Negotiation ● Data Analysis Management
● Persuasion/Storytelling ● Decision Making ● Project Cost
● Product Evangelism ● Judgement ● Project Management
● Technical ● Key Performance ● Business Relationship
Communication Indicator (KPI) Management
Application ● Business Project
● Return on Investment Stakeholder
Analysis Management
● Strategic Thinking
Internal Use Only: Culture and Values
● Learn more about GitHub's Culture (Mission, Values, etc.)
● Learn more about our Values
● Learn more about our Leadership Principles
● Learn more about our Manager Fundamentals

