Job Family Group: Product
Job Family: Product Management
Job Profile: Product Management P4 (G9)
Last Updated: April 30th, 2025
What You Do
Job Profile Summary
Independently contributes to identifying customers’ unmet or unknown needs and market
opportunities for enhancements or development of multiple feature areas. Understands
and starts to build experiences to solve unmet user needs. Works across multiple feature
areas. Identifies data-informed, short-term, and long-term investment opportunities,
evaluates tradeoffs, and prioritizes investments in consultation with cross-functional
partners for multiple feature areas. Influences and engages with cross-functional internal
partners, external partners, including early adopting customers, senior leadership, and
other key stakeholders to gather input and garner support for product/service vision,
strategy, and roadmap for multiple feature areas. Helps to define the feature set and works
with Design teams to connect multiple design factors. Owns the roadmap for the multiple
feature areas. Collaborates with partner team to build golden configurations and drives
scenario walkthroughs and thought exercises to identify problems, system friction, and
needed contingencies in advance of early customer adoption for multiple feature areas.
Collaborates with Product Marketing, Business Planning, and Engineering to identify
product release criteria customer acquisition, usage, retention, and monetization
strategies. Evangelizes the feature areas they work on with internal and external
stakeholders, partners, analysts, and customers in the industry via presentations, blog
posts, social media, and other forums.
Responsibilities
Analysis of Customer and Market Signals
● Independently contributes to identifying customers’ unmet or unknown needs and
market opportunities for enhancements or development of multiple feature areas
(e.g., product, service) via quantitative (e.g., usage, telemetry) and qualitative
analyses (e.g., customer usage, various listening systems, feedback channels of
market and industry trends), looks for patterns in the data across a portfolio, and
scopes the impact and prioritization of a problem. Brings together internal and
external customer groups and engages in direct 1:1 (e.g., visits, interviews) or many
(e.g., social media, events) customer engagements to solicit feedback and
understand their experiences with GitHub’s products and services using industry-
accepted methods. Performs market or user research in collaboration with the User

Research team, conducts competitive analyses, and examines market and industry
trends, as well as industry-specific requirements or regulations. Shares insights
with cross-functional partners and ensures cross-team alignment.
● Understands and starts to build experiences to solve unmet user needs. Starts to
coach internal team to develop problem statements and forms hypotheses of new
feature areas (e.g., product, service) to address complex customer needs and/or
market opportunities. Identifies dependencies of other feature areas. Performs
experiments to test hypotheses and inform decisions on what new feature areas
(e.g., product, service) to introduce. Establishes clarity of patterns of root problem
and how it relates with previously seen trends across customers, determines the
customers/sectors impacted, foresees future opportunities, and provides research
evidence to determine priorities. Ensures alignment between the customer, the
market, internal stakeholders, and the goals and strategy of GitHub. Collaborates
with others (e.g., Software Engineering [SWE], Hardware Engineering [HWE],
Product Marketing, Design) to ensure that they can satisfy customer requirements.
Validates the market size and opportunity to determine products or features of
greatest value. Defines solution options across multiple feature areas (e.g., product,
service). Partners with SWE, HWE, and senior colleagues on other teams in
refinement sessions to synthesize hypothesis results into solutions tied with
Objectives and Key Results (OKRs) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) progress.
Product/Service Definition
● Works across multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) as directed. Defines and
influences the long-term vision and strategy for the feature areas based on a deep
understanding of customer needs, market and user research, the competitive
landscape, and GitHub’s business goals and strategy. Helps write the product
framing/vision memo. Helps distill the vision and strategy into a product roadmap.
Creates user stories and assists in building epics to convey the big picture.
Leverages a deep understanding of the product architecture to design end-to-end
scenarios. Collaborates with others (e.g., Business Planning, Finance, Support,
Customers, Product Marketing) to identify the potential customer base.
Communicates product strategy to internal and external customers and builds
consensus through multiple methods (e.g., conference presentations, collaboration
with partner organizations). Helps develop packaging, pricing, and monetizability of
new and existing features and collaborates with Business Planning and Pricing
teams to ratify and execute pricing and packaging changes. Defines product user
personas and collaborates with Product Marketing to jointly develop Ideal
Customer Profile (ICP) and product buyer personas, including geographic, industry
vertical, or company size segmentation as appropriate.
● Owns or partners with others in driving business impact across the organization
and tracking success criteria and performance metrics (e.g., Objectives and Key
Results [OKRs], Key Performance Indicators [KPIs] such as engagement, usage,
acquisition, revenue, profitability, and in-project features) and provides clarity on
fundamentals (e.g., quality, privacy, security, compliance, accessibility, cost of
goods sold [COGS]) of multiple features or feature areas. Works with Software
Engineering (SWE) and Hardware Engineering (HWE) to identify needed data and
ensure needed telemetry is developed and obtains it responsibly and compliantly.
Reports and explicates reasons for outcomes. Deeply understands the COGS of

multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) and the KPIs that will help improve
profitability. Identifies OKRs for multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) and
ensures alignment of the features with product-level OKRs. Determines the value
of the product or feature to the business, aligns success criteria, and measures
success. Helps select appropriate candidate metrics for defining success of
products or features as well as numerical targets and measurement time horizons.
Regularly tracks and reports on metric performance during the evaluation period.
Uses product and feature performance metrics in prioritization and necessary level
of investment or disinvestment as necessary. Works with Sales to define potential
ROI of new investments including payback period and rate of return.
● Identifies data-informed, short-term, and long-term investment opportunities,
evaluates tradeoffs, and prioritizes investments in consultation with cross-
functional partners for multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service). Gains
understanding of buy vs. build vs. partnership alternatives for resource acquisition
in investment decisions and works with Business Development/Corporate
Development as needed to fully evaluate options. Determines the features or
experiences to prioritize in the roadmap that will support achievement of success
criteria and Objectives and Key Results (OKRs).
● Influences and engages with cross-functional internal partners, external partners,
including early adopting customers, senior leadership, and other key stakeholders
to gather input and garner support for product/service vision, strategy, and
roadmap for multiple feature areas. Starts to provide thought leadership for
questions and challenges from group managers and other leaders. Anticipates push
back and addresses it appropriately using product expertise and data while
handling challenging feedback. Collaborates to gain buy in and alignment. Solicits
input from others regarding priorities and resources needed to deliver desired
outcomes for multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service).
Product/Service Development
● Helps to define the feature set and works with Design teams to connect multiple
design factors (e.g., visual design, user experience [UX], application programming
interfaces [APIs], hardware design) to desired functionality and product vision.
Iterates multiple designs with Design, Software Engineering (SWE) and Hardware
Engineering (HWE). Leverages preexisting design patterns to inform current design
iterations and establish a cohesive design approach. Anticipates interoperability
challenges between different components or layers in the stack (e.g., UX and API
layer differences). Facilitates mid-level reviews (e.g., UX, system designs, data
designs) with customers (e.g., regulators, engineers, policy makers, business-
decision makers) to determine usability and ensure accessibility criteria and
updated designs meet customer goals.
● Owns the roadmap for the multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) they own.
Prioritizes the backlog, works with Software Engineering (SWE) and Hardware
Engineering (HWE) to align on tradeoffs for the multiple feature areas (e.g., product
service) they own, and partners with Product Marketing on the disclosure of the
roadmap. Takes in new inputs and adapts as necessary. Starts to build systems and
frameworks to enable the team to scale for a product area. Ensures line between
customer needs and what is developed on the roadmap so that a series of
problems can be addressed over time. Ensures alignment between the roadmap for

the multiple feature areas (e.g., product, service) and Objective and Key Results
(OKRs) and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
● Collaborates with partner team to build golden configurations and drives scenario
walkthroughs and thought exercises to identify problems, system friction, and
needed contingencies in advance of early customer adoption for multiple feature
areas (e.g., product, service). Shares feature previews or roadmap with customers
to drive engagement and to gather feedback and customer telemetry in conjunction
with others (e.g., Business Development, Sales, End Consumers, User Research).
Collaborates with Software Engineering (SWE), Hardware Engineering (HWE), and
Scientists to synthesize, prioritize, and address feedback to improvement.
Go To Market
● Collaborates with Product Marketing, Business Planning, and Engineering to identify
product release criteria customer acquisition, usage, retention, and monetization
strategies. May help scale Product Marketing teams by helping build marketing and
roll-out plans and/or content such as product overviews, blogs, and landing pages
for individual features or smaller products that ladder up to marketing plans for an
overall product solution area. Creates and drives strategy for taking the multiple
feature areas (e.g., product, service) from private preview to public preview and
then to general availability. Contributes to creating customer support plans (e.g.,
frequently asked questions [FAQs], scripts), change management, and
communication plans. Builds durable processes to provide input to other systems.
● Evangelizes the feature areas they work on with internal and external stakeholders,
partners, analysts, and customers in the industry via presentations, blog posts,
social media, and other forums. Connects feature or product level performance to
customer value drivers such as cost reduction, risk reduction, or improved
productivity and collaborates with Product Marketing to effectively deliver
compelling value propositions. Presents at Executive Briefing Centers (EBCs) and
large industry/company events. Acts as a primary interface with Product Marketing
to educate on the product and develop content.
Product/Service Performance
● Partners with others (e.g., Data Science, Software Engineering [SWE], Hardware
Engineering [HWE], User Research) to define and collect performance metrics (e.g.,
key performance indicators [KPIs] such as engagement, usage, acquisition, revenue,
and in-project features), monitor and report on progress (e.g., business reviews),
and derive deep insights and drives productive courses of action to improve
product/feature development, iteration, and implementation. Leverages customer
listening systems, telemetry, engagements (e.g., interviews, surveys), etc., to
develop insights on product performance and customer needs. Shares insights with
SWE, HWE, and other partners. Forms hypotheses to complex technical needs,
performs experiments, iterates, and tests to drive improvement/adoption in
specific performance metrics that have broad impact in a targeted area. Helps
manage the overall product lifecycle of their area including
sunsetting/discontinuation of products and features as necessary.
● Builds trust with a targeted selection of customers. Orchestrates a line of
communication with complex and advanced customers to capture feedback and
insights through the product development lifecycle. Helps manage customer

communities and customer engagement programs and respond to real-time
customer feedback in online portals. Understands and drives improvements in the
support process, including both forums and communities.
What You Need
Qualifications
Required/Minimum Qualifications
● 5+ years experience in product/service/project/program management, software
development, product design, or related field
OR Bachelor's Degree in related field AND 3+ years experience in
o
product/service/project/program management, software development,
product design, or related field
OR equivalent experience.
o
Additional or Preferred Qualifications
● Master’s Degree in related field AND 5+ years experience in
product/service/project/program management, software development, product
design, or related field.

How You Do It
Skills
Business Acumen and Customer and Partner Product Development and
Insights Relationship Management Lifecycle Management
● Financial Acumen ● Executive Presence ● Product Lifecycle
● GitHub Products ● Trusted Partner Status ● Product Specification
Knowledge Data Driven Decision ● Product Strategy
● Technical Domain Making and Problem ● User Experience (UX)
Knowledge and Skills Solving Project and Program
Communication and ● Agility Management
Influence ● Competitive Analysis ● Cross-functional Team
● Conflict Resolution ● Creativity Leadership
● Influence Others ● Customer Research ● Multi-Initiative Program
● Negotiation ● Data Analysis Management
● Persuasion/Storytelling ● Decision Making ● Project Cost
● Product Evangelism ● Judgement ● Project Management
● Technical ● Key Performance ● Business Relationship
Communication Indicator (KPI) Management
Application ● Project Stakeholder
● Return on Investment Management
Analysis
● Strategic Thinking
Internal Use Only: Culture and Values
● Learn more about GitHub's Culture (Mission, Values, etc.)
● Learn more about our Values
● Learn more about our Leadership Principles

