Pr o duc t O per a tio ns | 1
Career Stage Profile
Job Family Group: Product
Job Family: Product Operations
Summary
Job Family Definition Manages key operations. Manages the execution of large projects with organization-wide impact and with
stakeholders across several groups at the company. Uses data from a variety of sources to generate actionable
insights. Understands how to appropriately size change management plans into actionable and explicit
components that addresses managing resistance, implementation techniques, maintaining collaboration across
groups with diverging interests or styles, communications planning, and reinforcing change. Defines significant
end-to-end process changes and how they integrate into company and team level processes. Understands
software development methodologies and their applications at scale.
Job Profiles included:
• P3 – P5 (G8 – G10)
• M5 – M6 (G10 – G11)
 Job Profile Summaries
 Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
 Key Responsibilities (Manager)
 Skills

Pr o duc t O per a tio ns | 2
Job Profile Summaries
Job Profile Job Profile Summary
Product Operations P3 (G8) Takes actions reactively when health deviates beyond an acceptable range. Takes on projects autonomously of small to medium size from start to finish with limited guidance around the project
management process along the way. Talks to stakeholders and users to identify possible solutions to root cause issues. Identifies key metrics needed to ensure operational efficiency for their area.
Understands each stakeholder’s perspective and ensures that they have been appropriately considered in strategy setting and roadmap creation. Manages risk and uncertainty by incrementally
learning through starting small and exposing changes to progressively more people that impact a segment of the program. Communicates by incorporating some of our brand elements and refining
through feedback and editorial help to produce content appropriate for organization or company-wide audiences. Understands and manages relevant end-to-end processes, including impacts of
changes. Able to use other appropriate external tools to employ methodologies and deploy solutions.
Product Operations P4 (G9) Proactively surfaces recurring operational problems and assesses priority against backlog. Manages the execution of large projects with organization-wide impact and with stakeholders across
several groups at the company. Anchors decisions in research by talking to a range of stakeholders and users to identify solutions to root cause issues. Uses data from a variety of sources to generate
actionable insights. Understands each stakeholder’s perspective and ensures that they have been appropriately considered in strategy setting and roadmap creation. Understands how to
appropriately size change management plans into actionable and explicit components that addresses managing resistance, implementation techniques, maintaining collaboration across groups with
diverging interests or styles, communications planning, and reinforcing change. Appropriately calibrates messaging tone, format and medium according to stakeholder audience needs and on brand.
Collaboratively communicates across physical and cultural boundaries, with focus on inclusivity. Defines significant end-to-end process changes and how they integrate into company and team level
processes. Leverages advanced knowledge and experience to use other appropriate external tools to employ methodologies and deploy solutions.
Product Operations P5 (G10) Identifies patterns within and between operational processes to find and surface systemic gaps. Independently leads complex reviews and creates playbooks for teams within Product to follow that
have organization-wide impact. Talks to a range of customers and/or stakeholders across target segments and use cases, always looking for deeper insight. Proactively incorporates user usage data
and other measurable operational metrics into findings and plans. Is a role model for collaboration and creating alignment across teams. Drives changes that impact multiple organizations
thoughtfully while also keeping all stakeholders aligned. Crafts thoughtful, inspiring narratives for where their program is headed and the best path to get there. Identifies opportunities for new
processes and defines solutions to meet them. Leverages expert knowledge and experience to use other appropriate external tools to employ methodologies and deploy solutions.
Product Operations M5 (G10) Leverages partnerships to influence operational excellence in related processes upstream and downstream. Maintains team accountability for the delivery of complex, company-level projects that
span multiple departments with company visibility and executive-level stakeholders. Drives improvements in how team works with research. Leads talks with a range of customers and/or
stakeholders across target segments and use cases, always looking for deeper insight. Advocates with partner teams to get those new methods in place to expand capability. Seeks out new
partnerships with external stakeholders to help the company. Oversees change processes to maintain collaborative efforts across stakeholders. Leverages advanced knowledge when producing
communications that are organization and company-wide, and on content that is customer/public facing. Provides direction and consultation for the execution of strategies, implementing
appropriate end-to-end process changes considering industry best practices. Educates and empowers others to use appropriate tools to employ methodologies and deploy solutions as needed. In
addition, this role has people management responsibilities including driving employee growth and development, executing projects, and managing performance.
Product Operations M6 (G11) Establishes and develops partnerships to influence operational excellence in related processes upstream and downstream. Proactively monitors team accountability for the delivery of complex,
company-level projects that span multiple departments with company visibility and executive-level stakeholders. Oversees talk with a range of customers and/or stakeholders across target segments
and use cases, always looking for deeper insight. Manages relationships with partner teams and key stakeholders to get new methods in place to expand capability. Fosters relationships between
team members and external stakeholders to help the company. Establishes a creative and collaborative environment for cross-functional teams to best support a change that meets the needs of all
stakeholders. Leverages expert knowledge and strategic insight to advise on communications that are organization and company-wide, and on content that is customer/public facing. Directs the
development and execution of strategies, implementing appropriate end-to-end process changes considering industry best practices. Defines and communicates strategic objectives and scope
regarding the use of tools to employ methodologies and deploy solutions. In addition, this role has people management responsibilities including driving employee growth and development,
executing projects, and managing performance.

Pr o duc t O per a tio ns | 3
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Operations P3 (G8) Product Operations P4 (G9) Product Operations P5 (G10)
Operations and Program • Manages stable operations. • Manages key operations. • Defines operational excellence.
Management • Operates routine, relatively stable processes that the full • Operates routine yet volatile or high volume processes • Demonstrates deep knowledge of operational processes.
Operations organization depends on. that the full organization depends on. • Advances operational maturity through definition and
• Monitors operational health metrics. • Defines and monitors operational health metrics. refinement of operational health metrics.
• Takes actions reactively when health deviates beyond an • Takes actions reactively when health deviates beyond an • Identifies patterns within and between operational processes
acceptable range. acceptable range. to find and surface systemic gaps.
• Surfaces recurring operational problems and aids in • Proactively surfaces recurring operational problems and • Implements process improvements for executing tasks to
assessing priority against backlog. assesses priority against backlog. support teams within Product.
• Executes tasks to support teams within Product.
Operations and Program • Takes on projects autonomously of small to medium size • Manages the execution of large projects with • Manages the execution of complex, large projects with
Management from start to finish with limited guidance around the project organization-wide impact and with stakeholders across company-wide impact and with executive-level stakeholders
Project Management and management process along the way. several groups at the company. at the company.
Execution • Leads standard reviews and creates routine playbooks for • Properly scopes larger, complex plans into iterative, • Independently leads complex reviews and creates playbooks
teams within Product to follow. measurable projects and project phases. for teams within Product to follow that have organization-
• Independently leads reviews and creates playbooks for wide impact.
teams within Product to follow that have moderate
organizational impact.
Operations and Program • Informs strategy and the roadmap. • Sets the program('s') strategy and defines a clear roadmap • Sets a program's vision to guide the development of a
Management • Backlogs problems and solutions that contribute to a stated of prioritized features and initiatives that deliver against strategy and roadmap.
Program Ownership program strategy. that strategy. • Articulates the vision in a way that other team members,
• Provides reasonable input into prioritization factors. • Helps the organization understand what outcomes will be leaders, and stakeholders can understand and get behind.
delivered, why those outcomes are important, and how • Coordinates multiple solutions in their contribution to a
success will be measured. program's objectives.
Insights • Talks to stakeholders and users to identify possible • Anchors decisions in research by talking to a range of • Talks to a range of customers and/or stakeholders across
Information Gathering from Key solutions to root cause issues. stakeholders and users to identify solutions to root cause target segments and use cases, always looking for deeper
Stakeholders • Partners effectively with researchers and/or designers. issues. insight.
• Provides useful input and collaborates with researchers • Uses research as a key input into scoping and design. • Is recognized internally and externally as an expert in
and/or designers to conduct surveys and interviews • Proactively defines the stakeholder, problem, and solution customer/stakeholder needs for a range of use cases.
appropriate to the problem. distinctly. • Is able to use this insight to effectively create the best
• Is self-sufficient with research methods, mediums, and possible value across a range of use cases and anticipate
tasks. future product needs or opportunities.
• Can effectively define the research we need across a range of
product areas.
• Uses research as a key input for product strategy for their
product area and relevant use cases.

Pr o duc t O per a tio ns | 4
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Operations P3 (G8) Product Operations P4 (G9) Product Operations P5 (G10)
• Partners effectively with Research to uncover new insights
that help drive product strategy.
Insights • Identifies key metrics needed to ensure operational • Uses data from a variety of sources to generate actionable • Proactively incorporates user usage data and other
Data Analysis and Interpretation efficiency for their area. insights. measurable operational metrics into findings and plans.
• Builds data fluency and is fluent with the key research and • Leverages insights to define and set direction and vision • Uses a variety of telemetry and survey methods and tools,
data analysis methods and tools used day-to-day. for a program(s), connect program goals to meaningful which are part of typical work practices.
• Uses examples and takes consultation from experts to outcomes, and translate the vision into a design that • Shares results and insights with internal/external
develop analysis for our purposes. ensures that the program delivers the intended value to stakeholders.
customers.
Insights • Is seen as a go-to contact for an area of responsibility. • Responsible for taking in a range of inputs and • Seeks out and builds connections across other domains and
Connection • Provides insights around disparate data points within that perspectives to better clarify and prioritize focus areas for job families to develop stronger insights.
area. their program(s). • Intuitively understands what customers and/or stakeholders
• Intuitively understands what customers and/or want and translates that understanding into a compelling
stakeholders want and translates that understanding into a vision for the program.
compelling vision for the program.
Partnership and • Establishes and maintains open communication channels • Understands each stakeholder’s perspective and ensures • Communicates with the team, leadership, and key
Communication with stakeholders and partners. that they have been appropriately considered in strategy stakeholders frequently and effectively.
Stakeholder Management • Provides accurate and complete status reporting through setting and roadmap creation. • Clearly, concisely, and assertively articulates the problems
established means. • Builds coalitions and collaborates across functional teams being solved, the roadmap, its benefits and tradeoffs.
• Works with stakeholders to move projects forward, gather to ensure the right people with the right knowledge and • Collaborates effectively with all colleagues across the
information, and make decisions. expertise are involved. business.
• Is a role model for collaboration and creating alignment
across teams.
Partnership and • Manages risk and uncertainty by incrementally learning • Understands how to appropriately size change • Drives changes that impact multiple organizations
Communication through starting small and exposing changes to management plans into actionable and explicit thoughtfully while also keeping all stakeholders aligned.
Change Management and progressively more people that impact a segment of the components that addresses managing resistance, • Taps into existing readiness vehicles to raise awareness and
Instruction program. implementation techniques, maintaining collaboration broker educational responsibility.
across groups with diverging interests or styles,
communications planning, and reinforcing change.
Partnership and • Communicates by incorporating some of our brand • Appropriately calibrates messaging tone, format and • Crafts thoughtful, inspiring narratives for where their
Communication elements and refining through feedback and editorial help medium according to stakeholder audience needs and on program is headed and the best path to get there.
Brand to produce content appropriate for organization or brand. • Often provides editorial support and guidance to team
company-wide audiences. • Collaboratively communicates across physical and cultural members and others.
boundaries, with focus on inclusivity.

Pr o duc t O per a tio ns | 5
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Operations P3 (G8) Product Operations P4 (G9) Product Operations P5 (G10)
Design and Technology • Considers multiple aspects of the environment and subject • Takes action with incomplete information - experiments • Breaks into new solution areas or designs that bridge across
Solution Design matter when designing solutions. with directionally correct solutions to solve for ambiguity. areas of increasing complexity.
• Makes reasonable assumptions. • Expertly handles ambiguity by being flexible and by • Incorporates prior art and best practices from industry.
• Understands and manages relevant end-to-end processes, creating clarity for those around them. • Understands relevant end-to-end processes and those
including impacts of changes. • Defines significant end-to-end process changes and how upstream/downstream deeply.
they integrate into company and team level processes. • Identifies opportunities for new processes and defines
solutions to meet them.
Design and Technology • Builds familiarity with software development methodologies • Understands software development methodologies and • Applies thorough understanding of software development
GitHub Products, Tools, and used at GitHub. their applications at scale. methodologies when partnering with development teams to
Systems • Able to use GitHub's essential product features in a way • Able to use GitHub to employ methodologies and deploy adopt new features early and advocate for enhancements for
that fits in modern software development practices. solutions. GitHub’s products.
• Able to use other appropriate external tools to employ • Leverages advanced knowledge and experience to use • Able to rapidly learn and use a wide variety of GitHub’s
methodologies and deploy solutions. other appropriate external tools to employ methodologies products to employ methodologies and deploy solutions.
and deploy solutions. • Leverages expert knowledge and experience to use other
appropriate external tools to employ methodologies and
deploy solutions.

Pr o duc t O per a tio ns | 6
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
Product Operations M5 (G10) Product Operation M6 (G11)
Operations and Program • Drives operational excellence. • Champions operational excellence.
Management • Ensures multiple operational processes within a broad domain remain healthy. • Manages team members overseeing multiple operational processes across domains.
Operations • Leverages partnerships to influence operational excellence in related processes upstream • Establishes and develops partnerships to influence operational excellence in related processes
and downstream. upstream and downstream.
Operations and Program • Maintains team accountability for the delivery of complex, company-level projects that • Proactively monitors team accountability for the delivery of complex, company-level projects
Management span multiple departments with company visibility and executive-level stakeholders. that span multiple departments with company visibility and executive-level stakeholders.
Project Management and • Oversees complex reviews and collaborates with stakeholders to create high impact • Directs team members performing complex reviews and oversees the creation of high impact
Execution playbooks for teams within Product to follow. playbooks for teams within Product to follow.
Operations and Program • Uncovers and defines opportunities for new programs to be formed and makes the case • Forecasts and prioritizes strategies for identifying opportunities for new programs to be formed
Management for investment. and champions the case for investment.
Program Ownership
Insights • Drives improvements in how team works with research. • Directs improvements in how team works with research.
Information Gathering from Key • Leads talks with a range of customers and/or stakeholders across target segments and use • Oversees talk with a range of customers and/or stakeholders across target segments and use
Stakeholders cases, always looking for deeper insight. cases, always looking for deeper insight.
• Is recognized internally and externally as an expert in customer/stakeholder needs for a • Is recognized internally and externally as an expert in customer/stakeholder needs for a range of
range of use cases. use cases, and generates cutting-edge best practices around addressing the needs of others.
Insights • Discusses results, insights, and next steps of analyses with internal/external stakeholders. • Oversees and provides strategic insight during discussions with internal/external stakeholders.
Data Analysis and Interpretation • Identifies needs for new research and data methods that aren't yet available to the team. • Establishes strategic plans, goals, and objectives for identifying and implementing new research
• Advocates with partner teams to get those new methods in place to expand capability. and data methods.
• Manages relationships with partner teams and key stakeholders to get new methods in place to
expand capability.
Insights • Makes connections between work stream leaders and team leaders to bring industry- • Makes connections with work stream leaders and team leaders to bring industry-leading
Connection leading insights into the team's work. insights into the team's work.
• Leverages an advanced understanding of what customers and/or stakeholders want to • Leverages an expert understanding of what customers and/or stakeholders want and translates
implement strategic outcomes for the company. that into a compelling vision and future-oriented strategy for the company.
Partnership and • Proactively identifies and maintains ties across stakeholder and partner teams. • Oversees and facilitates relationships between stakeholder and partner teams.
Communication • Seeks out new partnerships with external stakeholders to help the company. • Fosters relationships between team members and external stakeholders to help the company.
Stakeholder Management
Partnership and • Fosters cross-functional relationships to identify responsibilities and form a coalition to • Manages cross-functional relationships and scopes responsibilities for the change process.
Communication support a change. • Establishes a creative and collaborative environment for cross-functional teams to best support
Change Management and • Oversees change processes to maintain collaborative efforts across stakeholders. a change that meets the needs of all stakeholders.
Instruction

Pr o duc t O per a tio ns | 7
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
Product Operations M5 (G10) Product Operation M6 (G11)
Partnership and • Serves as a role model to team on how to communicate within and as GitHub. • Engages team and team leaders to ensure all staff can effectively communicate within and as
Communication • Leverages advanced knowledge when producing communications that are organization GitHub.
Brand and company-wide, and on content that is customer/public facing. • Leverages expert knowledge and strategic insight to advise on communications that are
organization and company-wide, and on content that is customer/public facing.
Design and Technology • Leads the design of solutions that push the industry to address problems in original ways. • Conducts long-term planning to develop solutions that push the industry to address problems
Solution Design • Provides direction and consultation for the execution of strategies, implementing in original ways.
appropriate end-to-end process changes considering industry best practices. • Directs the development and execution of strategies, implementing appropriate end-to-end
process changes considering industry best practices.
Design and Technology • Establishes best practices for implementing product enhancements that advance GitHub's • Forecasts future internal or external needs and guides the planning of objectives and strategies
GitHub Products, Tools, and products. for implementing product enhancements that advance GItHub's products.
Systems • Educates and empowers others to use appropriate tools to employ methodologies and • Defines and communicates strategic objectives and scope regarding the use of tools to employ
deploy solutions as needed. methodologies and deploy solutions.

Pr o duc t O per a tio ns | 8
Skills
Skill Key
1 Critical/Important and Required Upon Hire
2 Critical/Important and NOT Required Upon Hire
- Not Important/Critical
P3 P4 P5 M5 M6
Skill Cluster Name Skill Name Skill Definition
(G8) (G9) (G10) (G10) (G11)
GitHub Products Knowledge of GitHub products, services, relevant domain expertise, and the ability to participate in technical conversations
2 2 2 2 2
Business Acumen and Knowledge related to products/services.
Insights Technical Domain The ability to develop, understand, and apply domain-specific technical knowledge to complete assigned work, tasks, and
2 1 1 1 1
Knowledge and Skills support others in the organization.
Business Storytelling The ability to identify business goals and plans, pull together a story, and why it is important to do what is needed. 2 2 1 1 1
The ability to understand and deliver information through a contextually appropriate medium that is tailored to the audience.
Communications 1 1 1 1 1
This includes oral and written communication in English for work matters.
The ability to manage conflict, disharmony, and strife among people and situations, while recognizing and addressing
Conflict Resolution 2 2 1 1 1
sensitivities.
Communication and
The skill to influence others, develop and maintain working relationships, and deliver results and/or expertise for a client in a
Influence Consulting 2 1 1 1 1
professional manner.
The ability to clearly craft, communicate, and describe content narratives to create a shared understanding. This includes
Content Storytelling using storytelling as a tool to sell and communicate value within and outside the company by sharing stories and historical 2 2 1 1 1
anecdotes.
Influence Others The ability to garner support for initiatives by gaining the respect of others and inspiring trust and confidence. 2 1 1 1 1
The ability to develop and maintain positive working relationships with supervisors, staff, managers, customers, and vendors.
Customer and Partner Business Relationship
This includes expressing empathy and compassion when dealing with the needs and problems of others, being 1 1 1 1 1
Relationship Management
approachable, taking time to address the concerns of coworkers, and treating others with respect and dignity.
Management
Value Selling The ability to apply value selling by communicating a value proposition to internal and external audiences. 2 1 1 1 1
The ability to apply ingenuity, inventiveness, and imagination to the inclusive design and construction of a product, service,
Creativity 2 2 1 1 1
program, or initiative.
The ability to systematically gather information from a variety of sources, analyze information, identify implications of data,
Data Driven Decision
draw conclusions, generate alternatives and solutions, and evaluate the consequences of choosing each alternative using
Making and Problem Data Analysis 2 1 1 1 1
quality metrics and data. This includes the ability to convert general data and findings into applied, specific information and
Solving
suggestions that add value to business planning and strategies.
The ability to identify rules, principles, trends, patterns and/or relationships that explain facts, data, or other information; and
Data Interpretation 2 1 1 1 1
to analyze information, make correct inferences, and draw accurate conclusions.

Pr o duc t O per a tio ns | 9
The ability to make decisions in a fast-paced, rapidly changing environment. This includes the ability to define, diagnose, and
Decision Making determine an appropriate resolution, recommendation, or decision while considering alternatives and factors (e.g., resources, 2 1 1 1 1
costs, tradeoffs).
The ability to utilize a design thinking approach during the design process to consider issues, retrieve information, and
Design Thinking resolve problems. This includes the ability to match people's needs with technological feasibility and/or business strategy 2 1 1 1 1
that transfer into customer value and market opportunity.
Problem Solving The ability to identify problems and review related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions. 1 1 1 1 1
Process Architect Flexibility in methods of managing project including processes of the team, specific to the team and project needs. 1 1 1 1 1
The ability to determine the workflow, equipment needs, and implementation requirements for a particular process. This also
Process Design 1 1 1 1 1
includes the skill in using a number of tools including flowcharting, process simulation software, and scale models.
Knowledge of the overall process for developing, releasing, and maintaining products. This may include knowledge of the
Product Lifecycle roles and responsibilities of engineering and other functions, major phases, checkpoints, and deliverables. This may also 1 1 1 1 1
include the ability to identify common issues and considerations for delivering, updating, or deprecating a product.
Product Development Knowledge of strategic project planning and the process of deciding on product objectives, resources, operations and
and Lifecycle policies which will be implemented in the future. This includes the ability to look for opportunities to grow the business and
Product Strategy 2 1 1 1 1
Management reduce costs, monitor the environment for opportunities, formulate strategies that provide distinct competitive advantages,
and consider problems and opportunities from a broad, multi-functional perspective.
Knowledge of various tools and technologies used in the organization (e.g., project management, collaboration, work
tracking, road mapping, data analytics [GitHub, Atlassian, Asana]) and the ability to evaluate and select additional necessary
Product Tools tools based on organizational goals and vendor offerings. This also includes the ability to oversee the scope, quality, and 1 1 1 1 1
performance of tools, continuously evaluating their effectiveness, and making adjustments to product resources or vendor
agreements as needed.
The ability to sponsor and champion change initiatives, inspiring others to embrace the change while supporting them
through the overall change process. This includes knowledge of effective communication strategies to facilitate change and
Behavioral Change
gain buy-in. This also includes problem-solving skills to identify and address barriers to change, and the ability to measure 2 1 1 1 1
Management
the effectiveness of change initiatives or compliance with the change and iterate on the process to ensure successful
outcomes.
The ability to apply principles, systems, tools, and strategic insights to sustainably improve key performance indicator (KPI)
Operational Excellence 1 1 1 1 1
metrics and drive operational efficiencies.
The ability to be organized, resourceful, and planful. This includes the ability to leverage multiple resources to get things
Organization Skills done and lay out tasks in sufficient detail. This also includes the ability to work on multiple tasks at once without losing track, 1 1 1 1 1
Project and Program
and foresee and plan around obstacles.
Management
Program
Knowledge of the development and implementation process of a program. This may include the ability to plan, design,
Development/Implement 1 1 1 1 1
implement, and/or ensure compliance for programs used throughout the company.
ation
Knowledge of and the ability to administer and manage various programs used throughout the company, including resolving
Program Management 1 1 1 1 1
issues and answering relevant queries.
Knowledge of and the ability to carry out the process of planning, organizing, and managing tasks and resources to
accomplish a well-defined objective. This includes the ability to manage and provide project deliverables, optimize the
Project Management 1 1 1 1 1
contribution of the people involved, and assess the impact of project decisions on quality, productivity, schedules, cost,
performance, etc.

Pr o duc t O per a tio ns | 10
Project Stakeholder The ability to manage project stakeholders and stakeholder engagements. This includes identifying stakeholders, prioritizing
1 1 1 1 1
Management their concerns, managing expectations, and planning and monitoring stakeholder engagements.