P r o duct D es i gn | 1
Career Stage Profile
Job Family Group: Design
Job Family: Product Design
Summary
Job Family Definition Defines product experiences and collaborates with team members, managers, and developers to shepherd end-
to-end product experiences from concept to ship for products based on user and business needs and insights.
Generates solutions to improve product designs. Creates prototypes and flows for new products and uses various
tools to demonstrate designs to teams, customers, and/or stakeholders. Collaborates with Engineering for
successful design implementation and performs quality checks to ensure designs are accessible and implemented
as intended. Ensures designs meet expectations from various perspectives (e.g., accessibility, brand, platform user
experience), in multiple interfaces (e.g., desktop, mobile), and with different user configurations and scenarios
(e.g., empty states, edge cases).
Job Profiles included:
• P1 – P6 (G6-G11)
• M3 – M6 (G8-G11)
 Job Profile Summaries
 Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
 Key Responsibilities (Manager)
 Skills

P r o duct D es i gn | 2
Job Profile Summaries
Job Profile Job Profile Summary
Product Design P1 (G6) Follows guidance to execute work delivery. Offers suggestions in ideation meetings to improve product designs. Collaborates with Engineering to aid in successful design implementation and
performs quality checks to ensure the final design is implemented as intended with guidance. Produces visual designs from concept to delivery under the guidance of senior team members. Assists
with the creation of wireframes, journey maps, user jobs and scenarios, task flows, and personas in support of interaction designs for hardware and/or software-based experiences under the direction
of a senior team member. Uses prescribed design system primitives and components. Learns to convey work to peers and managers within immediate team so that the audience understands. Works
with a senior team member to create a compelling narrative for a specific product or feature. Assists with fundamental tasks on projects with team members, product managers, program managers,
and developers to define and iterate on new and existing product features.
Product Design P2 (G7) Follows guidance and starts to estimate individual schedules for work delivery. Assists in ideation meetings to improve product designs and generates ideas for a specific, isolated design element.
Prototypes for new products and features as efficiently as possible under the guidance of senior team members. Collaborates with Engineering to aid in successful design implementation and
performs quality checks to ensure the final design is implemented as intended with guidance. Produces visual designs from concept to delivery with limited guidance from senior team members.
Creates wireframes, journey maps, jobs to be done, scenarios, task flows, and personas in support of interaction designs for hardware and/or software-based experiences under the direction of a
senior team member. Uses prescribed design system primitives and components. Conveys work to peers and managers within immediate team so that the audience understands. Works with a senior
team member to create a compelling narrative for a specific product or feature. Assists with fundamental tasks on projects with team members, product managers, program managers, and
developers to define and iterate on new and existing product features.
Product Design P3 (G8) Estimates individual schedule for work delivery. Generates ideation solutions to improve product designs. Prototypes for new products and features as efficiently as possible. Collaborates with
Engineering to aid in successful design implementation and performs quality checks to ensure the final design is implemented as intended with minimal guidance. Produces visual designs from
concept to delivery. Creates wireframes, journey maps, jobs to be done, scenarios, task flows, and personas in support of interaction designs for hardware and/or software-based experiences with
minimal guidance. Contributes to the use and adoption of latest design system primitives and components. Conveys work to peers and managers within their job family team(s) so that the audience
understands. Recognizes and communicates user needs to team members and recommends ideas to create a compelling narrative for the product. Performs fundamental tasks on projects with team
members, product managers, program managers, and developers to define and iterate on new and existing product features.
Product Design P4 (G9) Estimates individual schedule(s) and creates schedules and planning systems across teams. Generates and leads ideation solutions for products involving moderately complex challenges to improve
product designs. Prototypes for new products as efficiently as possible. Leads collaborations with Engineering for successful design implementation and performs quality checks to ensure the final
design is implemented as intended. Produces high quality designs from concept to delivery. Creates wireframes, journey maps, jobs to be done, scenarios, task flows, and personas in support of
interaction designs for hardware and/or software-based experiences. Contributes to the use and adoption of latest design system primitives and components. Communicates with cross-disciplinary
teams inside and across job families through all stages of ideation, design, and development. Communicates a compelling, convincing product story to a specific audience. Works with team
members, product managers, program managers, and developers to define and iterate on new and existing product features.
Product Design P5 (G10) Creates alignment on schedules and plan definitions, including dependency tracking, across the job family. Generates and leads others to generate ideation solutions for products involving complex
challenges to improve product designs. Leads prototyping at large scale for new products as efficiently as possible. Leads collaborations with teams across the company for successful design
implementation and leads quality checks to ensure the final design is implemented as intended. Leads the production of visual designs from concept to delivery. Identifies and evangelizes for
scenarios that will ultimately turn into interaction designs for hardware and/or software-based experiences. Leads the use and adoption of latest design system primitives and components. Sets
context for senior leadership stakeholders. Communicates a compelling, convincing product story to a variety of audiences in a way that inspires excitement and support of the product. Leads
collaborations with team members, product managers, program managers, and developers to define and iterate on new and existing product features, as well as to make decisions on behalf of the
organization.
Product Design P6 (G11) Creates alignment on schedules and plan definitions, including dependency tracking, across solution areas. Sets direction across the team for ideation to generate solutions for products involving
highly complex challenges to improve product designs. Leads prototyping at large scale for new products as efficiently as possible. Leads collaborations with teams across the company to provide
oversight for successful design implementation and leads quality checks to ensure the final design is implemented as intended. Leads the production of visual designs from concept to delivery. Leads
the strategy for and the development and enhancement of product user experiences via creation of interactive prototypes and detailed flows for new and existing hardware and/or software-based
experiences while serving as a liaison between users and products. Sets direction for use and adoption of design system primitives and components. Conveys a vision for a product, process, or a
system to senior leadership. Provides thought leadership to the team regarding storytelling while connecting the story to relevant designs across the company. Leads workstreams with team
members, product managers, program managers, and developers to define and iterate on new and existing product features, as well as to make decisions on behalf of the organization.

P r o duct D es i gn | 3
Product Design M3 (G8) Estimates individual schedule(s) and creates schedules and planning systems across teams. Generates and leads ideation solutions to improve product designs. Leads prototyping for new products as
efficiently as possible. Provides guidance to support collaboration with teams across the company for successful design implementation and supervises quality checks to ensure the final design is
implemented as intended. Produces visual designs from concept to delivery. Creates wireframes, journey maps, jobs to be done, scenarios, task flows, and personas in support of interaction designs
for hardware and/or software-based experiences. Contributes to the use and adoption of latest design system primitives and components. Communicates with cross-disciplinary teams inside and
across job families through all stages of ideation, design, and development. Communicates a compelling, convincing product story to a specific audience. Works with team members, product
managers, program managers, and developers to define and iterate on new and existing product features. In addition, this role has people management responsibilities including driving employee
growth and development, executing projects, and managing performance.
Product Design M4 (G9) Creates alignment on schedules and plan definitions, including dependency tracking, across the job family. Directs others to generate ideation solutions for products involving moderately complex
challenges to improve product designs. Leads prototyping for new products as efficiently as possible. Directs collaboration with teams across the company for successful design implementation and
manages quality checks to ensure the final design is implemented as intended. Leads the production of visual designs from concept to delivery. Identifies and evangelizes for scenarios that will
ultimately turn into interaction designs for hardware and/or software-based experiences. Leads the use and adoption of latest design system primitives and components. Sets context for senior
leadership stakeholders. Communicates a compelling, convincing product story to a variety of audiences in a way that inspires excitement and support of the product. Leads collaboration with team
members, product managers, program managers, and developers across teams to define and iterate on new and existing product features, as well as to make decisions on behalf of the organization.
In addition, this role has people management responsibilities including driving employee growth and development, executing projects, and managing performance.
Product Design M5 (G10) Creates alignment on schedules and plan definitions, including dependency tracking across solution areas. Sets direction across teams for ideation to generate solutions for products involving
complex challenges to improve product designs. Leads prototyping at large scale for new products as efficiently as possible. Directs collaboration with teams across the company to provide oversight
for successful design implementation and manages quality checks to ensure the final design is implemented as intended. Leads the production of visual designs from concept to delivery. Leads the
strategy for and the development and enhancement of product user experiences while serving as a liaison between users and products. Sets direction for use and adoption of design system
primitives and components. Conveys a vision for a product, process, or a system to senior leadership. Provides thought leadership to the team regarding storytelling, while connecting the story to
relevant designs across the company. Leads workstreams with team members, product managers, program managers, and developers across the organization to define and iterate on new and
existing product features, as well as to make decisions on behalf of the organization. In addition, this role has people management responsibilities including driving employee growth and
development, executing projects, and managing performance.
Product Design M6 (G11) Leads long-term planning and defining of user needs to anticipate user experiences across products. Leads long-term vision and planning for large-scale ideation plans, processes, and procedures to
ensure optimal product designs across an entire family of products. Oversees work as a thought leader for new products and directs design concepts to prototype across all major products of
significant impact. Establishes collaborations with teams across the company to provide oversight for successful design implementation to ensure the final design is implemented as intended. Leads
the long-term vision and strategy for the production of visual designs from concept to delivery to design products. Leads the long-term strategy and vision for the development and enhancement of
product user experiences while serving as a high-level liaison between users and products. Sets the direction and long-term vision for the use of design systems as they evolve. Conveys a long-term
vision for a product, process, or to senior leadership. Provides thought leadership to the team regarding storytelling while connecting across the company. Leads long-term strategy and vision for
team leaders and develops relationships with key executives. In addition, this role has people management responsibilities including driving employee growth and development, executing projects,
and managing performance.

P r o duct D es i gn | 4
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Design P1 (G6) Product Design P2 (G7) Product Design P3 (G8) Product Design P4 (G9) Product Design P5 (G10) Product Design P6 (G11)
Define and Plan • Follows guidance to execute • Follows guidance and starts • Estimates individual • Estimates individual • Creates alignment on • Creates alignment on
work delivery. to estimate individual schedule (e.g., time schedule(s) and creates schedules and plan schedules and plan
• Follows established schedules (e.g., time requirements) for work schedules and planning definitions, including definitions, including
guidelines to begin defining requirements) for work delivery. systems across teams. dependency tracking, dependency tracking,
needs of product designs delivery. • Defines needs of product • Defines and prioritizes across the job family. across solution areas.
based on multiple factors • Begins to define needs of designs as the owner of a product plans. • Influences the product • Influences the product
(e.g., user insights, business product designs based on set of experiences/products • Creates clarity for other strategy and leads others in strategy across the product
needs) with supervision. multiple factors (e.g., user based on multiple factors members of the team. defining needs of large ecosystem and/or solution
• Helps to identify needs that insights, business needs) (e.g., user insights, business • Begins influencing the and/or complex product areas and leads others in
are not spoken and raises with supervision. needs) with minimal prioritization of the product designs based on multiple defining needs of large
them with senior team • Helps to identify needs that supervision. backlog. factors (e.g., user insights, and/or complex product
members. are not spoken and raises • Identifies needs that are not • Identifies needs that are not business needs). designs based on multiple
• Supports team in them with senior team spoken and includes them spoken and includes them • Leads team in identifying factors (e.g., user insights,
developing a synthesis of members. in an end-to-end design in an end-to-end design needs that are not spoken business needs).
user insights by following • Supports team in plan and process. plan and process. and including them in end- • Strategizes across the team
clear directions to compare developing a synthesis of • Develops a synthesis of user • Considers multiple factors to-end design plan and for identifying needs that
with data to identify larger user insights and compares insights and compares with such as user insights and process. are not spoken and
issues that may not be with data to identify larger data to identify larger issues business needs and begins • Guides others to develop a including them in an end-
apparent for user needs. issues that may not be that may not be apparent to translate needs into synthesis of user insights to-end design plan and
• Helps the apparent for user needs. for user needs. product plans. and compare with data to process.
Engineering/Product/Design • Follows guidance to apply • Collaborates with product • Develops a synthesis of user identify larger issues that • Leads team and strategy for
(EPD) team to decide on agile methodologies to split management and insights and compares with may not be apparent for development of a synthesis
how to split a feature in a feature in different development team data to identify larger issues user needs. of user insights and
different iterations that are iterations that are members to shepherd end- that may not be apparent • Makes the case for compares with data to
meaningful to users and can meaningful to users and to-end experiences from for user needs. investments in product identify larger issues that
help the team learn about helps the team learn about concept to ship for • Collaborates with product designs to senior may not be apparent for
the experience (i.e., ship to the experience (i.e., ship to products. management and leadership. user needs.
learn). learn). • Follows agile development team • Collaborates with product • Makes the case for
methodologies to split a members to shepherd end- management and investments in product
feature in different to-end experiences from development team designs to senior
iterations that are concept to ship for members to shepherd end- leadership.
meaningful to users and products. to-end experiences from • Collaborates with senior
helps the team learn about • Follows agile concept to ship for large product management and
the experience (i.e., ship to methodologies to split a and/or complex products. development team leaders
learn). feature in different • Leads the application of to shepherd end-to-end
• Starts to identify iterations that are agile methodologies to split experiences from concept
opportunities for building meaningful to users and a feature in different

P r o duct D es i gn | 5
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Design P1 (G6) Product Design P2 (G7) Product Design P3 (G8) Product Design P4 (G9) Product Design P5 (G10) Product Design P6 (G11)
experiments to gauge the helps the team learn about iterations that are to ship for large and/or
appetite for a certain the experience (i.e., ship to meaningful to users and complex products.
feature. learn). helps the team learn about • Mentors team on applying
• Identifies opportunities for the experience (i.e., ship to agile methodologies to split
building experiments to learn). a feature in different
gauge the appetite for a • Leads experiments to help iterations that are
certain feature. define high level end-to- meaningful to users and
end experiences. helps the team learn about
the experience (i.e., ship to
learn).
• Identifies opportunities for
building experiments to
gauge the appetite for high
impact features.
Ideate • Offers suggestions in • Assists in ideation meetings • Generates ideation • Generates and leads • Generates and leads others • Sets direction across the
ideation meetings to to improve product designs solutions to improve ideation solutions for to generate ideation team for ideation to
improve product designs. and generates ideas for a product designs. products involving solutions for products generate solutions for
• Helps facilitate engagement specific, isolated design • Utilizes a variety of moderately complex involving complex products involving highly
for an ideation exercise as element. perspectives when ideating challenges (e.g., involving challenges (e.g., involving complex challenges (e.g.,
part of a design discovery • Helps facilitate engagement (e.g., business, experience, many constraints, needing many constraints, needing involving many constraints,
process. for an ideation exercise as technology). workarounds, requiring workarounds, requiring needing workarounds,
• Checks feasibility and part of a design discovery • Synthesizes ideation holistic view of holistic view of requiring holistic view of
usefulness of ideas with process. solutions into a concise interconnected systems) to interconnected systems) to interconnected systems) to
peers and product team • Checks feasibility and articulation of user needs improve product designs. improve product designs. improve product designs.
leaders. usefulness of ideas with and subsequent solutions. • Utilizes a variety of • Brings diverse teams • Manages complexities and
peers and product team • Facilitates engagement for perspectives when ideating together and provides input provides leadership on the
leaders. an ideation exercise as part (e.g., business, experience, on the strategic utilization strategic utilization of a
of a design discovery technology). of a variety of perspectives variety of perspectives
process. • Synthesizes ideation when ideating (e.g., when ideating (e.g.,
• Informs the ideation solutions to a concise business, experience, technology, business,
process using existing articulation of user needs technology). marketing).
research and makes and subsequent solutions. • Synthesizes ideation • Provides high-level
recommendations to • Facilitates engagement for solutions for complex feedback and guidance for
conduct new studies as an ideation exercise as part problems to a concise team members synthesizing
needed. of a design discovery articulation of user needs ideation solutions for highly
process. and subsequent solutions. complex problems to a
concise articulation of user

P r o duct D es i gn | 6
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Design P1 (G6) Product Design P2 (G7) Product Design P3 (G8) Product Design P4 (G9) Product Design P5 (G10) Product Design P6 (G11)
• Informs the ideation • Informs the ideation and client needs and
process using existing process using existing subsequent solutions.
research and identifies research and identifies • Guides others on the
needs to conduct new needs to conduct new ideation process using
studies. studies. existing research and
identifies needs to conduct
new studies with
widespread impact.
Prototyping • N/A • Prototypes for new • Prototypes for new • Prototypes for new • Leads prototyping at large • Leads prototyping at large
products and features as products and features as products as efficiently as scale for new products as scale for new products as
efficiently as possible under efficiently as possible. possible. efficiently as possible. efficiently as possible.
the guidance of senior team • Uses digital and physical • Uses digital and physical • Provides guidance to other • Provides guidance to other
members. tools to demonstrate design tools to demonstrate design team members about what team members about what
• Uses digital and physical to teams, customers, and/or to teams, customers, and/or the prototype should the prototype should
tools to demonstrate design stakeholders and then stakeholders and then communicate and how to communicate and how to
to peers and senior team gauge customer gauge feasibility and find the right prototype for create the right prototype
members to gauge perceptions/needs. customer a problem. for a problem.
feasibility and customer • Prototypes in accordance perceptions/needs. • Seeks to understand user • Oversees processes to
needs. with company's brand and • Leverages prototyping needs and propose a understand user needs,
• Prototypes in accordance guidelines and identifies frameworks in accordance design prototype, evaluate guides others on proposing
with company's brand and missing elements. with company's brand and its usefulness, and design prototypes,
guidelines with little • Recommends guidelines, and evolves determine next steps to evaluates design
feedback from senior team improvements to guidelines guidelines when existing ensure optimal product usefulness, and leads the
members. when existing guidelines are guidelines are unclear. designs. process of determining
unclear. • Ensures prototypes are in next steps to ensure
accordance with company's optimal flows.
brand and guidelines and • Leads the vision for new
evolves guidelines when designs based on broad
existing guidelines are industry insights, provides
unclear. feedback to leadership
about proposed designs,
and collaborates with
executives to promote
long-term product design
visions and buy-in for
current and proposed
product designs.

P r o duct D es i gn | 7
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Design P1 (G6) Product Design P2 (G7) Product Design P3 (G8) Product Design P4 (G9) Product Design P5 (G10) Product Design P6 (G11)
• Ensures prototypes are in
accordance with company's
brand and guidelines, and
directs the development of
guidelines when existing
guidelines are unclear, and
shares and upholds
guidelines across teams
and areas.
Design Quality • Collaborates with • Collaborates with • Collaborates with • Leads collaborations with • Leads collaborations with • Leads collaborations with
Engineering to aid in Engineering to aid in Engineering to aid in Engineering for successful teams across the company teams across the company
successful design successful design successful design design implementation and for successful design to provide oversight for
implementation and implementation and implementation and performs quality checks to implementation and leads successful design
performs quality checks to performs quality checks to performs quality checks to ensure the final design is quality checks to ensure the implementation and leads
ensure the final design is ensure the final design is ensure the final design is implemented as intended. final design is implemented quality checks to ensure the
implemented as intended implemented as intended implemented as intended • Provides needed as intended. final design is implemented
with guidance. with guidance. with minimal guidance. deliverables and works with • Ensures deliverables are as intended.
• Follows clear directions to • Provides support for • Provides needed developers during provided and directs • Ensures deliverables are
provide support for needed needed deliverables and deliverables and works with implementation to iterate collaboration with provided and directs
deliverables and contributes contributes to developers during further on designs and developers during collaboration with senior
to collaborations with collaborations with implementation to iterate ensure optimal designs. implementation to iterate developers and leadership
developers during developers during further on designs and • Demonstrates ability to further on designs and during implementation to
implementation to iterate implementation to iterate ensure optimal designs. challenge limitations, ensure optimal designs. iterate further on designs
further on designs and further on designs and • Develops an aptitude on negotiate with Engineering • Drives negotiations with and ensure optimal
ensure optimal designs. ensure optimal designs. limitations of what is and Product, adjust to Engineering and Product designs.
• Develops understanding implementable, and begins Engineering/Product/Design and pushes design agenda • Drives negotiations with
and ability to ensure to challenge limitations. (EPD) schedules, find forward while finding senior leaders in
designs meet expectations • Demonstrates familiarity alternatives, and make cases compromises and Engineering and Product
from various perspectives using the right components for designs to be alternatives. and pushes design agenda
(e.g., accessibility, brand, and principles that are part implemented in a certain • Guides team and reviews forward while finding
platform user experience). of the design system. way. designs to ensure designs compromises and
• Starts to ensure designs • Ensures own designs meet • Demonstrates proficiency use the right components alternatives.
meet expectations in expectations from various using the right components and principles that are part • Guides and reviews across
multiple interfaces (e.g., perspectives (e.g., and principles that are part of the design system. teams to ensure designs
desktop, mobile) and with accessibility, brand, of the design system. • Acts as the owner use the right components
different user platform user experience). • Ensures designs meet approving the ship and principles that are part
configurations. expectations from various readiness of designs by of the design system.

P r o duct D es i gn | 8
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Design P1 (G6) Product Design P2 (G7) Product Design P3 (G8) Product Design P4 (G9) Product Design P5 (G10) Product Design P6 (G11)
• Develops understanding • Ensures own designs meet perspectives (e.g., considering various • Acts as the owner
and ability to ensure expectations in multiple accessibility, brand, perspectives (e.g., approving the ship
designs work in multiple interfaces (e.g., desktop, platform user experience). accessibility, brand, readiness by considering
scenarios depending on mobile) and with different • Ensures designs meet platform user experience). various perspectives (e.g.,
user type/setup and point user configurations. expectations in multiple • Provides advanced accessibility, brand,
of user journey (e.g., empty • Provides support to ensure interfaces (e.g., desktop, consultation to ensure platform user experience).
states, edge cases). designs work in multiple mobile) and with different designs meet expectations • Provides expert
scenarios depending on user configurations. in multiple interfaces (e.g., consultation to ensure
user type/setup and point • Ensures designs work in desktop, mobile) and with designs meet expectations
of user journey (e.g., empty multiple scenarios different user in multiple interfaces (e.g.,
states, edge cases). depending on user configurations. desktop, mobile) and with
type/setup and point of • Provides advanced different user
user journey (e.g., empty consultation to ensure configurations.
states, edge cases). designs work in multiple • Provides expert
scenarios depending on consultation to ensure
user type/setup and point designs work in multiple
of user journey (e.g., empty scenarios depending on
states, edge cases). user type/setup and point
of user journey (e.g., empty
states, edge cases).
Visual Design • Produces visual designs • Produces visual designs • Produces visual designs • Produces high quality • Leads the production of • Leads the production of
from concept to delivery from concept to delivery from concept to delivery. designs from concept to visual designs from concept visual designs from concept
under the guidance of with limited guidance from • Creates needed visual delivery. to delivery. to delivery.
senior team members. senior team members. design deliverables • Creates needed visual • Creates, evangelizes, and • Creates, evangelizes, and
• Assists the creation needed • Creates needed visual including assets, design deliverables oversees needed visual oversees needed visual
visual design deliverables design deliverables animations, and flows. including assets, animations, design deliverables design deliverables
including assets, animations, including assets, • Advocates for brand and flows. including assets, including assets,
and flows with guidance. animations, and flows with adherence and promotion • Advocates for and oversees animations, and flows. animations, and flows.
• Follows direction to apply guidance. of inclusivity principles. brand adherence and • Communicates and • Communicates and
visual patterns in different • Follows direction to apply • Applies visual patterns in promotion of inclusivity executes strategic product executes strategic product
interfaces (e.g., web, mobile, visual patterns in different different interfaces (e.g., principles, ensuring designs visual design direction to visual design direction to
console, desktop interfaces (e.g., web, mobile, web, mobile, console, are accessible. leaders at all stages from leaders at all stages from
applications) with guidance. console, desktop desktop applications). • Applies visual patterns in intent to implementation to intent to implementation to
applications). • Makes recommendations different interfaces (e.g., ensure alignment. ensure alignment.
for accessible designs that web, mobile, console, • Champions and oversees • Champions and sets
consider possible scenarios desktop applications). brand adherence and expectations for brand
and user personas. promotion of inclusivity adherence and promotion

P r o duct D es i gn | 9
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Design P1 (G6) Product Design P2 (G7) Product Design P3 (G8) Product Design P4 (G9) Product Design P5 (G10) Product Design P6 (G11)
• Produces accessible designs principles, ensuring designs of inclusivity principles,
that consider possible are accessible. ensuring designs are
scenarios and user • Applies visual patterns in accessible.
personas. different interfaces (e.g., • Provides expert solutions
web, mobile, console, for applying visual patterns
desktop applications). in different interfaces (e.g.,
• Leads the production of web, mobile, console,
accessible designs that desktop applications).
consider possible scenarios • Champions the production
and user personas. of accessible designs that
consider possible scenarios
and user personas.
Interaction Design • Assists with the creation of • Creates wireframes, journey • Creates wireframes, journey • Creates wireframes, journey • Identifies and evangelizes • Leads the strategy for and
wireframes, journey maps, maps, jobs to be done, maps, jobs to be done, maps, jobs to be done, for scenarios that will the development and
user jobs and scenarios, task scenarios, task flows, and scenarios, task flows, and scenarios, task flows, and ultimately turn into enhancement of product
flows, and personas in personas in support of personas in support of personas in support of interaction designs for user experiences via
support of interaction interaction designs for interaction designs for interaction designs for hardware and/or software- creation of interactive
designs for hardware and/or hardware and/or software- hardware and/or software- hardware and/or software- based experiences. prototypes and detailed
software-based experiences based experiences under based experiences with based experiences. • Serves as an architect over flows for new and existing
under the direction of a the direction of a senior minimal guidance. • Conceptualizes and delivers the strategy for a product hardware and/or software-
senior team member. team member. • Conceptualizes and delivers artifacts at needed levels of design and for multiple based experiences while
• Conceptualizes and delivers • Conceptualizes and delivers artifacts at needed levels of fidelity. systems. serving as a liaison between
artifacts at needed levels of artifacts at needed levels of fidelity with minimal • Contributes to and begins • Directs team to develop users and products.
fidelity following clear fidelity with guidance. guidance. to lead development and and enhance product user • Leads team to ensure the
directions. • Participates in the • Participates in the enhancement of product experiences via creation of designs of the products
• Participates in the development and development and user experience via creation interactive prototypes and allow the user to complete
development and enhancement of product enhancement of product of interactive prototypes detailed flows for new and the desired functions in the
enhancement of product user experience via creation user experiences via and detailed flows for new existing product features best possible manner.
user experience via creation of interactive prototypes creation of interactive and existing product while serving as a liaison • Drives creation of
of interactive prototypes and detailed flows for new prototypes and detailed features while serving as a between users and interactions that adapt to
and detailed flows for new and existing product flows for new and existing liaison between users and products. different input devices (e.g.,
and existing product features. product features while products. • Leads team to ensure the keyboard, mouse, voice).
features. • Assists others to help serving as a liaison between • Ensures that the designs of designs of the products
• Assists others to help ensure that the designs of users and products. the products allow the user allow the user to complete
ensure that the designs of the products allow the user • Ensures that the designs of to complete the desired the desired functions in the
the products allow the user to complete the desired the products allow the user functions in the best best possible manner.
to complete the desired to complete the desired possible manner.

P r o duct D es i gn | 10
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Design P1 (G6) Product Design P2 (G7) Product Design P3 (G8) Product Design P4 (G9) Product Design P5 (G10) Product Design P6 (G11)
functions in the best functions in the best functions in the best • Creates interactions that • Leads creation of
possible manner. possible manner. possible manner. adapt to different input interactions that adapt to
• Assists others in creating • Assists others in creating • Creates interactions that devices (e.g., keyboard, different input devices (e.g.,
interactions that adapt to interactions that adapt to adapt to different input mouse, voice). keyboard, mouse, voice).
different input devices (e.g., different input devices (e.g., devices (e.g., keyboard,
keyboard, mouse, voice). keyboard, mouse, voice). mouse, voice).
Design Systems • Uses prescribed design • Uses prescribed design • Contributes to the use and • Contributes to the use and • Leads the use and adoption • Sets direction for use and
system primitives and system primitives and adoption of latest design adoption of latest design of latest design system adoption of design system
components. components. system primitives and system primitives and primitives and components. primitives and components.
• Shares learnings and • Shares learnings and components. components. • Helps others use the system • Ensures that the team
collaborates with other collaborates with other • Ensures products are • Ensures products are and drives consistency, tracks an improvement in
designers to share designers to share aligned with company-wide aligned with company-wide alignment, and standards efficiency and collaboration
education for team education for team systems. systems. across multiple teams. through the use of the
improvements. improvements. • Helps others use the system • Helps others use the system system.
• Leverages design system • Makes sure components are and drives consistency and and drives consistency and • Directs others to use the
components and follows documented and updates alignment within the team. alignment within the team. system and drives
documented guidance with documentation when • Provides support to ensure • Ensures components are consistency, alignment, and
supervision. changes are made with components are accessible. accessible. standards across multiple
supervision. • Makes sure components are • Makes sure components are teams.
documented and updates documented and updates
documentation when documentation when
changes are made. changes are made.
Communication • Learns to convey work to • Conveys work to peers and • Conveys work to peers and • Communicates with cross- • Sets context for senior • Conveys a vision for a
peers and managers within managers within immediate managers within their job disciplinary teams inside leadership stakeholders. product, process, or a
immediate team so that the team so that the audience family team(s) so that the and across job families • Guides communication with system to senior leadership.
audience understands. understands. audience understands. through all stages of cross-disciplinary teams • Uses a variety of
• Communicates in a • Communicates in a • Helps organize ideation, design, and inside and across job techniques, such as
professional and timely professional and timely communication with cross- development. families through all stages emotional, data driven, and
fashion. fashion. disciplinary teams inside • Owns communication for of ideation, design, and customer experience driven
• Begins to identify which and across through all what one is doing in a development. techniques to convey an
mode of communication stages of ideation, design, proactive way. • Owns communication for idea.
would be most effective in and development. • Identifies which mode of what one is doing in a • Cultivates communication
each scenario (e.g., written, • Owns communication for communication would be proactive way. workstreams for effective
demo videos, calls). what one is doing in a most effective in each • Identifies which mode of communication across
proactive way. scenario (e.g., written, demo communication would be groups.
videos, calls). most effective in each

P r o duct D es i gn | 11
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Design P1 (G6) Product Design P2 (G7) Product Design P3 (G8) Product Design P4 (G9) Product Design P5 (G10) Product Design P6 (G11)
• Identifies which mode of • Manages tonality, being scenario (e.g., written, demo • Demonstrates executive
communication would be respectful, inclusive, videos, calls). maturity in communication
most effective in each concise, and clear. • Leads communication interactions.
scenario (e.g., written, demo • Communicates up and out workstreams for effective • Recognized by others as an
videos, calls). to leaders. communication across expert because of
• Manages tonality, being • Provides clear messages groups. evangelizing designs
respectful, inclusive, that can be understood • Provides clear messages through communication.
concise, and clear. across time zones with the that can be understood
• Provides clear messages needed context. across time zones with the
that can be understood needed context.
across time zones with the
needed context.
Storytelling • Works with a senior team • Works with a senior team • Recognizes and • Communicates a • Communicates a • Provides thought
member to create a member to create a communicates user needs compelling, convincing compelling, convincing leadership to the team
compelling narrative for a compelling narrative for a to team members and product story to a specific product story to a variety of regarding storytelling while
specific product or feature. specific product or feature. recommends ideas to audience. audiences in a way that connecting the story to
• Follows guidance to explore • Explores new and create a compelling • Shares stories to leaders inspires excitement and relevant designs across the
new and interesting ways of interesting ways of telling narrative for the product. and adjusts narrative support of the product. company.
telling stories (e.g., video stories (e.g., video • Explores new and depending on the audience. • Influences for impact and • Communicates a
illustrations, sound). illustrations, sound). interesting ways of telling • Shares stories using buy-in from key compelling, convincing
stories (e.g., video visualizations and stakeholders through product story to a variety of
illustrations, sound). demonstrations in addition storytelling. audiences in a way that
to written formats. • Coaches team members on inspires excitement and
using various storytelling support of the product and
techniques (e.g., influences buy-in from key
visualizations, demos). stakeholders.
• Coaches team members on
using various storytelling
techniques (e.g.,
visualizations, demos).
Collaboration • Assists with fundamental • Assists with fundamental • Performs fundamental tasks • Works with team members, • Leads collaboration with • Leads workstreams with
tasks on projects with team tasks on projects with team on projects with team product managers, program team members, product team members, product
members, product members, product members, product managers, and developers managers, program managers, program
managers, program managers, program managers, program to define and iterate on new managers, and developers managers, and developers
managers, and developers managers, and developers managers, and developers and existing product to define and iterate on to define and iterate on
to define and iterate on new to define and iterate on to define and iterate on features. new and existing product new and existing product

P r o duct D es i gn | 12
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
Product Design P1 (G6) Product Design P2 (G7) Product Design P3 (G8) Product Design P4 (G9) Product Design P5 (G10) Product Design P6 (G11)
and existing product new and existing product new and existing product • Collaborates with team features, as well as to make features, as well as to make
features. features. features. members to deliver product decisions on behalf of the decisions on behalf of the
• Supports collaborative • Follows guidance to • Collaborates with team design results while guiding organization. organization.
efforts across the team collaborate with team members to deliver product the team's newer members. • Collaborates with • Leads workstream
under the direction of members to deliver product design results. • Influences stakeholders leadership and team collaboration with
senior team members. design results. • Begins to influence across job families (e.g., members to deliver product leadership, team members,
stakeholders across job Marketing, Sales, design results while guiding and external partners.
families (e.g., Marketing, Engineering, Product). the other team members. • Serves as an expert to
Sales, Engineering, Product). • Connects dots between • Influences stakeholders promote the team
• Works collaboratively by teams to enable across job families (e.g., delivering on key product
leveraging the work of collaboration, identifying Marketing, Sales, design plans and processes.
others and contributing to opportunities to build on Engineering, Product). • Influences senior leadership
the success of others. the work of others and • Connects dots between stakeholders across job
leverage previous work. teams to enable families (e.g., Marketing,
collaboration, identifying Sales, Engineering,
opportunities to build on Product).
the work of others and • Provides expert-level
leverage previous work. perspective on how to build
on and leverage previous
work.

P r o duct D es i gn | 13
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
Product Design M3 (G8) Product Design M4 (G9) Product Design M5 (G10) Product Design M6 (G11)
Define and Plan • Estimates individual schedule(s) and • Creates alignment on schedules and plan • Creates alignment on schedules and plan • Leads long-term planning and defining of
creates schedules and planning systems definitions, including dependency tracking, definitions, including dependency tracking user needs to anticipate user experiences
across teams. across the job family. across solution areas. across products.
• Defines and prioritizes product plans. • Influences the product strategy and leads • Influences the product strategy across the • Provides high-level guidance to team in
• Creates clarity for other members of the others in defining needs of large and/or product ecosystem and/or solution areas identifying needs that are not spoken and
team. complex product designs based on and leads others in defining needs of large including them in an end-to-end design
• Begins influencing the prioritization of the multiple factors (e.g., user insights, and/or complex product designs based on plan and process.
product backlog. business needs). user insights. • Leads strategy direction and
• Identifies needs that are not spoken and • Leads team in identifying needs that are • Leads team and strategy for identifying methodologies for user insight synthesis in
includes them in an end-to-end design not spoken and including them in an end- needs that are not spoken and including support of user needs.
plan and process. to-end design plan and process. them in an end-to-end design plan and • Makes the case for investments in product
• Considers multiple factors (e.g., user • Guides others to develop a synthesis of process. designs to senior leadership.
insights, business needs) and begins to user insights and compare with data to • Strategizes the development of a synthesis • Leads collaboration with senior leadership
translate needs into product plans. identify larger issues that may not be of user insights and compares with data to for product management and
• Develops a synthesis of user insights and apparent for user needs. identify larger issues that may not be development teams to shepherd end-to-
compares with data to identify larger issues • Makes the case for investments in product apparent for user needs. end experiences from concept to ship
that may not be apparent for user needs. designs to senior leadership. • Makes the case for investments in product across products.
• Collaborates with product management • Collaborates with product management designs to senior leadership. • Defines, influences, and builds support for
and development team members to and development team members to • Leads collaboration with senior product long-term product strategy that situates
shepherd end-to-end experiences from shepherd end-to-end experiences from management and development team the company's future in the context of
concept to ship for products. concept to ship for large and/or complex leaders to shepherd end-to-end emerging tech and company growth.
• Guides team members on applying agile products. experiences from concept to ship for large • Seeks and applies external insights to
methodologies to split a feature in • Guides team members on applying agile and/or complex products. ensure team members use cutting-edge
different iterations that are meaningful to methodologies to split a feature in • Coaches team members on applying agile agile methodologies to split a feature in
users and helps the team learn about the different iterations that are meaningful to methodologies to split a feature in different iterations that are meaningful to
experience (i.e., ship to learn). users and helps the team learn about the different iterations that are meaningful to users and helps the team learn about the
• Starts to identify opportunities for building experience (i.e., ship to learn). users and helps the team learn about the experience (i.e., ship to learn).
experiments to gauge the appetite for a • Identifies opportunities for building experience (i.e., ship to learn). • Encourages team members to identify
feature. experiments to gauge the appetite for a • Identifies opportunities for building opportunities for building experiments to
feature. experiments to gauge the appetite for high gauge the appetite for high impact
impact features. features.
Ideate • Generates and leads ideation solutions to • Directs others to generate ideation • Sets direction across teams for ideation to • Leads long-term vision and planning for
improve product designs. solutions for products involving generate solutions for products involving large scale ideation plans, processes, and
• Utilizes a variety of perspectives when moderately complex challenges (e.g., complex challenges (e.g., involving many procedures to ensure optimal product
ideating (e.g., business, experience, involving many constraints, needing constraints, needing workarounds, designs across an entire family of products.
technology). workarounds, requiring holistic view of requiring holistic view of interconnected • Provides leadership and expert input on the
systems) to improve product designs. strategic utilization of a variety of

P r o duct D es i gn | 14
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
Product Design M3 (G8) Product Design M4 (G9) Product Design M5 (G10) Product Design M6 (G11)
• Synthesizes ideation solutions to a concise interconnected systems) to improve • Manages complexities and provides perspectives when ideating (e.g., technology,
articulation of user needs and subsequent product designs. leadership on the strategic utilization of a business, marketing).
solutions. • Brings diverse teams together and provides variety of perspectives when ideating (e.g., • Provides high-level feedback and guidance
• Facilitates engagement for an ideation input on the strategic utilization of a technology, business, marketing). for team members synthesizing ideation
exercise as part of a design discovery variety of perspectives when ideating (e.g., • Provides high-level feedback and guidance solutions for highly complex problems into a
process. business, experience, technology). for team members synthesizing ideation concise articulation of user and client needs
• Supports the ideation process using • Synthesizes ideation solutions to a concise solutions for complex problems to a and solutions.
existing research and makes articulation of user needs and subsequent concise articulation of user and client • Provides guidance and feedback regarding
recommendations to conduct new studies solutions. needs and subsequent solutions. processes across the company for continuity
as needed. • Informs the ideation process using existing • Informs the ideation process using existing in design overall for the organization.
research and identifies needs to conduct research and identifies needs to conduct • Guides others on the ideation process using
new studies. new studies. existing research and approves
recommendations to conduct new studies
with widespread impact.
Prototyping • Leads prototyping for new products as • Leads prototyping for new products as • Leads prototyping at large scale for new • Oversees work as a thought leader for new
efficiently as possible. efficiently as possible. products as efficiently as possible. products and directs which design
• Evaluates and enables digital and physical • Provides guidance to other team members • Provides guidance to other team members concepts to prototype across all major
tools to demonstrate design to teams, about what the prototype should about what the prototype should products of significant impact.
customers, and/or stakeholders and then communicate and how to find the right communicate and how to identify the right • Leads the vision for new designs based on
gauge feasibility and customer prototype for a problem. prototype for a problem. broad industry insights, provides feedback
perceptions/needs. • Seeks to understand user needs and • Oversees processes to understand user to leadership about proposed designs, and
• Leverages prototyping frameworks in propose a design prototype, evaluate its needs, guides others on proposing design collaborates with executives to promote
accordance with company's brand and usefulness, and determine next steps to prototypes, evaluates design usefulness, long-term product design visions and buy-
guidelines and evolves guidelines when ensure optimal product designs. and leads the process of determining next in for current and proposed product
existing guidelines are unclear. • Ensures prototypes are in accordance with steps to ensure optimal flows. designs, while ensuring alignment with
company's brand and guidelines and • Contributes to the vision for new designs strategic interests.
evolves guidelines when existing guidelines based on broad industry trends and • Ensures prototypes are built in accordance
are unclear. collaborates with leadership on long-term with company's brand and guidelines and
product design visions and buy-in for directs the development of guidelines
current and proposed product designs. when existing guidelines are unclear, and
• Ensures prototypes are in accordance with upholds and shares guidelines across
company's brand and guidelines and teams and areas.
directs the development of guidelines
when existing guidelines are unclear, and
upholds and shares guidelines across
teams and areas.

P r o duct D es i gn | 15
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
Product Design M3 (G8) Product Design M4 (G9) Product Design M5 (G10) Product Design M6 (G11)
Design Quality • Provides guidance to support collaboration • Directs collaboration with teams across the • Directs collaboration with teams across the • Establishes collaborations with teams
with teams across the company for company for successful design company to provide oversight for across the company to provide oversight
successful design implementation and implementation and manages quality successful design implementation and for successful design implementation and
supervises quality checks to ensure the checks to ensure the final design is manages quality checks to ensure the final defines expectations for quality checks to
final design is implemented as intended. implemented as intended. design is implemented as intended. ensure the final design is implemented as
• Provides needed deliverables and works • Provides needed deliverables and directs • Ensures deliverables are provided and intended.
with developers during implementation to collaboration with developers during directs collaboration with senior • Directs collaboration with senior
iterate further on designs and ensure implementation to iterate further on developers and leadership during developers and leadership during
optimal designs. designs and ensure optimal designs. implementation to iterate further on implementation to iterate further on
• Demonstrates ability to challenge • Drives negotiations with Engineering and designs and ensure optimal designs. designs and ensure optimal designs.
limitations, negotiate with Engineering and Product and pushes design agenda • Drives negotiations with senior leaders in • Drives negotiations with senior leaders in
Product, adjust to forward while finding compromises and Engineering and Product and pushes Engineering and Product and pushes
Engineering/Product/Design (EPD) alternatives. design agenda forward while finding design agenda forward while finding
schedules, find alternatives, and make • Acts as the owner approving the ship compromises and alternatives. compromises and alternatives.
cases for designs to be implemented in a readiness by considering various • Acts as the owner approving the ship • Acts as the owner approving the ship
certain way. perspectives (e.g., accessibility, brand, readiness from a design perspective by readiness by considering various
• Ensures designs use the right components platform user experience). considering various perspectives (e.g., perspectives (e.g., accessibility, brand,
and principles that are part of the design • Oversees designs to ensure use the right accessibility, brand, platform user platform user experience).
system. components and principles that are part of experience). • Defines guidelines for ensuring designs
• Ensures designs meet expectations from the design system. • Oversees designs to ensure designs use use the right components and principles
various perspectives (e.g., accessibility, • Oversees designs to ensure designs meet the right components and principles that that are part of the design system.
brand, platform user experience). expectations in multiple interfaces (e.g., are part of the design system. • Outlines processes and expectations to
• Ensures designs meet expectations in desktop, mobile) and with different user • Oversees designs to ensure designs meet ensure designs meet expectations in
multiple interfaces (e.g., desktop, mobile) configurations. expectations in multiple interfaces (e.g., multiple interfaces (e.g., desktop, mobile)
and with different user configurations. • Oversees designs to ensure designs work desktop, mobile) and with different user and with different user configurations.
• Ensures designs work in multiple scenarios in multiple scenarios depending on user configurations. • Provides expert consultation to ensure
depending on user type/setup and point of type/setup and point of user journey (e.g., • Oversees designs to ensure designs work designs work in multiple scenarios
user journey (e.g., empty states, edge empty states, edge cases). in multiple scenarios depending on user depending on user type/setup and point of
cases). type/setup and point of user journey (e.g., user journey (e.g., empty states, edge
empty states, edge cases). cases).
Visual Design • Produces visual designs from concept to • Leads the production of visual designs • Leads the production of visual designs • Leads the long-term vision and strategy for
delivery. from concept to delivery. from concept to delivery. the production of visual designs from
• Creates needed visual design deliverables • Creates, evangelizes, and oversees needed • Creates, evangelizes, and oversees needed concept to delivery to design products.
including assets, animations, and flows. visual design deliverables including assets, visual design deliverables including assets, • Leads team to ensure high-quality designs
• Advocates for and oversees brand animations, and flows. animations, and flows. which manifest into artifacts for
adherence and promotion of inclusivity • Communicates and executes strategic • Communicates and executes strategic engineering implementation.
principles, ensuring designs are accessible. product visual design direction to leaders product visual design direction to leaders

P r o duct D es i gn | 16
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
Product Design M3 (G8) Product Design M4 (G9) Product Design M5 (G10) Product Design M6 (G11)
• Applies visual patterns in different at all stages from intent to implementation at all stages from intent to implementation • Works collaboratively with senior
interfaces (e.g., web, mobile, console, to ensure alignment. to ensure alignment. leadership across the company to create
desktop applications). • Supervises brand adherence and • Champions and sets expectations for brand state-of-the-art product designs.
• Produces accessible designs that consider promotion of inclusivity principles, adherence and promotion of inclusivity • Communicates and executes a strategic
possible scenarios and user personas. ensuring designs are accessible. principles, ensuring designs are accessible. visual design direction to top level leaders
• Guides others on applying visual patterns • Oversees application of visual patterns in from intent to implementation for
in different interfaces (e.g., web, mobile, different interfaces (e.g., web, mobile, products, tools, and services.
console, desktop applications). console, desktop applications). • Establishes brand and inclusivity principles.
• Leads the production of accessible designs • Encourages teams to produce accessible • Defines and sets expectations for applying
that consider possible scenarios and user designs that consider possible scenarios visual patterns in different interfaces (e.g.,
personas. and user personas. web, mobile, console, desktop
applications).
• Encourages teams to produce accessible
designs that consider possible scenarios
and user personas.
Interaction Design • Creates wireframes, journey maps, jobs to • Identifies and evangelizes for scenarios • Leads the strategy for and the • Leads the long-term strategy and vision for
be done, scenarios, task flows, and that will ultimately turn into interaction development and enhancement of product the development and enhancement of
personas in support of interaction designs designs for hardware and/or software- user experiences via creation of interactive product user experiences via creation of
for hardware and/or software-based based experiences. models and detailed flows for new and interactive prototypes and detailed flows
experiences. • Serves as an architect over the strategy for existing hardware and/or software-based for new and existing hardware and/or
• Conceptualizes and delivers artifacts at a product design and multiple systems. experiences while serving as a liaison software-based experiences while serving
needed levels of fidelity. • Directs team to develop and enhance between users and products. as a high-level liaison between users and
• Contributes to and begins to lead product user experiences via creation of • Leads team to ensure the designs of the products.
development and enhancement of product interactive prototypes and detailed flows products allow the user to complete the • Develops buy-in from executive
user experience via creation of interactive for new and existing product features while desired functions in the best possible stakeholders to ensure the designs of the
prototypes and detailed flows for new and serving as a liaison between users and manner. products allow the user to complete the
existing product features while serving as a products. • Reviews the creation of interactions to desired functions in the best possible
liaison between users and products. • Guides team to ensure the designs of the ensure they adapt to different input manner.
• Ensures that the designs of the products products allow the user to complete the devices (e.g., keyboard, mouse, voice). • Oversees the creation of interactions to
allow the user to complete the desired desired functions in the best possible ensure they adapt to different input
functions in the best possible manner. manner. devices (e.g., keyboard, mouse, voice).
• Creates interactions that adapt to different • Ensures creation of interactions adapt to
input devices (e.g., keyboard, mouse, different input devices (e.g., keyboard,
voice). mouse, voice).

P r o duct D es i gn | 17
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
Product Design M3 (G8) Product Design M4 (G9) Product Design M5 (G10) Product Design M6 (G11)
Design Systems • Contributes to the use and adoption of • Leads the use and adoption of latest • Sets direction for use and adoption of • Sets the direction and long-term vision for
latest design system primitives and design system primitives and components. design system primitives and components. the use of design systems as they evolve.
components. • Guides team to ensure products are • Ensures that the team tracks an • Ensures that the team tracks an
• Ensures products are aligned with aligned with company-wide systems. improvement in efficiency and improvement in efficiency and
company-wide systems. • Helps others use the system and drives collaboration through the use of the collaboration through the use of these
• Helps others use the system and drives consistency, alignment, and standards system. systems.
consistency and alignment within the team. across multiple teams. • Sets guidelines for ensuring products are • Leverages deep industry knowledge to
aligned with company-wide systems. drive improvement plans and ensure
• Directs others to use the system and drives consistency across the company.
consistency, alignment, and standards
across multiple teams.
Communication • Communicates with cross-disciplinary • Sets context for senior leadership • Conveys a vision for a product, process, or • Conveys a long-term vision for a product,
teams inside and across job families stakeholders. a system to senior leadership. process, or a system to senior leadership.
through all stages of ideation, design, and • Guides communication with cross- • Uses a variety of techniques, such as • Leads long-term strategy and vision for
development. disciplinary teams inside and across job emotional, data driven, and customer effective communication with cross-
• Owns communication for what one is families through all stages of ideation, experience driven techniques to convey an disciplinary teams inside and across job
doing in a proactive way. design, and development. idea. families through all stages of ideation,
• Identifies which mode of communication • Leads communication workstreams for • Cultivates communication workstreams for design, and development.
would be most effective in each scenario effective communication across groups. effective communication across groups. • Leads collaboration efforts with senior
(e.g., written, demo videos, calls). • Demonstrates executive maturity in leadership to ensure they are informed and
• Manages tonality, being respectful, communication interactions. aligned with product design strategy and
inclusive, concise, and clear. • Recognized by others as an expert because long-term plan.
• Communicates up and out to leaders. of evangelizing designs through • Demonstrates executive maturity in
communication. communication interactions.
• Recognized by others as an expert because
of evangelizing designs through
communication.
Storytelling • Communicates a compelling, convincing • Communicates a compelling, convincing • Provides thought leadership to the team • Provides thought leadership to the team
product story to a specific audience. product story to a variety of audiences in a regarding storytelling, while connecting regarding storytelling while connecting the
• Shares stories to leaders and adjusts way that inspires excitement and support the story to relevant designs across the story to relevant designs across the
narrative depending on the audience. of the product. company. company.
• Coaches their team on applying various • Influences for impact and buy-in from key • Communicates a compelling, convincing • Communicates a compelling, convincing
storytelling techniques (e.g., visualizations, stakeholders through storytelling. product story to a variety of audiences in a product story to a variety of audiences in a
demos). • Coaches teams on applying various way that inspires excitement and support way that inspires excitement and support
storytelling techniques (e.g., visualizations, of the product, and influences buy-in from of the product, and influences buy-in from
demos). key stakeholders. key stakeholders.

P r o duct D es i gn | 18
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
Product Design M3 (G8) Product Design M4 (G9) Product Design M5 (G10) Product Design M6 (G11)
• Coaches teams on applying various • Conveys a clear vision by applying various
storytelling techniques (e.g., visualizations, storytelling techniques (e.g., visualizations,
demos). demos).
Collaboration • Works with team members, product • Leads collaboration with team members, • Leads workstreams with team members, • Leads long-term strategy and vision for
managers, program managers, and product managers, program managers, and product managers, program managers, team leaders and develops relationships
developers to define and iterate on new developers across teams to define and and developers across the organization to with key executives.
and existing product features. iterate on new and existing product define and iterate on new and existing • Defines and provides feedback on
• Supervises collaboration across team features, as well as to make decisions on product features, as well as to make iterations of new and existing product
members to deliver product design results behalf of the organization. decisions on behalf of the organization. designs and features to successfully
while guiding the team's newer members. • Coordinates collaboration between • Leads workstream collaboration with collaborate on design outcomes.
• Influences stakeholders across job families leadership and team members to deliver leadership, team members, and external • Influences senior leadership across the
(e.g., Marketing, Sales, Engineering, product design results while providing partners. company relevant to product design.
Product). guidance to team members. • Serves as an expert to promote the team • Serves as a subject matter expert in the
• Connects dots between teams to enable • Influences stakeholders across job families delivering on key product design plans and industry.
collaboration, identifying opportunities to (e.g., Marketing, Sales, Engineering, processes. • Evolves the collaboration between Design
build on the work of others and leverage Product). • Influences senior leadership stakeholders and other groups (e.g., Engineering and
previous work. • Connects dots between teams to enable across job families (e.g., Marketing, Sales, Product).
collaboration, identifying opportunities to Engineering, Product).
build on the work of others and leverage • Provides expert-level perspective on how
previous work. to build on and leverage previous work.

P r o duct D es i gn | 19
Skills
Skill Key
1 Critical/Important and Required Upon Hire
2 Critical/Important and NOT Required Upon Hire
- Not Important/Critical
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 M3 M4 M5 M6
Skill Cluster Name Skill Name Skill Definition
(G6) (G7) (G8) (G9) (G10) (G11) (G8) (G9) (G10) (G11)
The ability to understand and deliver information through a
Communications contextually appropriate medium that is tailored to the audience. This 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
includes oral and written communication in English for work matters.
The ability to manage conflict, disharmony, and strife among people
Conflict Resolution - - 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
and situations, while recognizing and addressing sensitivities.
The skill to influence others, develop and maintain working
Consulting relationships, and deliver results and/or expertise for a client in a - 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
professional manner.
The ability to garner support for initiatives by gaining the respect of
Influence Others - 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
others and inspiring trust and confidence.
The ability to represent various products, projects, programs, and the
Communication and
company in a narrative format. This includes the ability to communicate
Influence
value and pitch ideas by sharing stories with stakeholders as well as
Narrative Storytelling 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
using narrative examples to highlight potential impact. Includes skill in
using narratives and stories to enhance others' understanding of work
being completed or envisioned.
The ability to engage others in ideas both inside and outside the
Persuasion/Storytelling company with anecdotes, data, customer scenarios, and product 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
features by leveraging their strong communication skills.
The ability to tell a story in a visual format in order to convey
information and emotion. This includes the ability to use images,
Visual Storytelling 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
motion, and conceptual animation to explain concepts, technologies,
pathways, and customer journeys.
The ability to make decisions in a fast-paced, rapidly changing
Data Driven Decision environment. This includes the ability to define, diagnose, and
Making and Problem Decision Making determine an appropriate resolution, recommendation, or decision - - 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Solving while considering alternatives and factors (e.g., resources, costs,
tradeoffs).

P r o duct D es i gn | 20
The ability to identify problems and review related information to
Problem Solving 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
Knowledge of competitors and their products or services in the market;
Competitor Intelligence this includes the understanding of the relative advantages and - 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
disadvantages of GitHub's products or services.
Industry Trends and The ability to understand the industry/vertical emerging trends, explore
Market Acumen Emerging Industry how industry-specific business challenges are being solved through 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Solutions unique vendor and/or partner solutions.
Knowledge of the market context in which the business operates,
Market Knowledge including understanding market trends and how they will impact - 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
customers and the business.
The ability to communicate across teams, which consists of
Cross-team communicating through various means. This includes presentations
2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Communication and other communication methods to receive consensus, buy-in, or
informing key stakeholders of current process/project status.
The ability to apply principles, systems, tools, and strategic insights to
Operational Excellence sustainably improve key performance indicator (KPI) metrics and drive - 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
operational efficiencies.
Knowledge of and the ability to carry out the process of planning,
organizing, and managing tasks and resources to accomplish a well-
defined objective. This includes the ability to manage and provide
Project Management - 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
project deliverables, optimize the contribution of the people involved,
Project and Program and assess the impact of project decisions on quality, productivity,
Management schedules, cost, performance, etc.
The ability to manage a project schedule, defining and sequencing
Project Planning activities, estimating activity durations, and developing and controlling - - 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
the schedule.
The ability to manage project stakeholders and stakeholder
Project Stakeholder engagements. This includes identifying stakeholders, prioritizing their
- 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Management concerns, managing expectations, and planning and monitoring
stakeholder engagements.
The ability to analyze and recognize how a system's parts interrelate
and how sub-systems work over time within the context of larger
Systems Thinking 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
systems. This includes the ability to view systems with a broad
perspective and identify overall structures, patterns, and cycles.
The ability to efficiently and effectively develop and deliver
Accessibility 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
accessibility, diversity and inclusion strategies, and plans.
The ability to apply ingenuity, inventiveness, and imagination to the
User Experience and
Creativity inclusive design and construction of a product, service, program, or 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Design
initiative.
Knowledge of accessible technology to help inform the development
Inclusive Design 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
of programs and/or courses for users.

P r o duct D es i gn | 21
Knowledge of the design between users and products through
Interaction Design interaction design. This includes understanding how to integrate user 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
desires into product design.
The ability to apply graphic design principles to filmmaking and video
production through the use of animation and visual effects. This
Motion Design - - 2 1 1 1 - - - -
includes the ability to effectively integrate the elements of time, sound,
and space into messages and designs.
Knowledge of and ability to design products through prototyping and
providing designs for new products. This includes an understanding of
Product Design 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
the design process of design fundamentals, such as storytelling,
wireframes, and modeling products.
Knowledge of and ability to use cutting-edge applications and current
Product Design Tools 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2
design tools in support of product design process.
Knowledge of the process of bringing a new product to market,
including standardized product development methods that comply
Product Development - 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
with established procedures, documentation frameworks, and product
development standards.
Knowledge of and ability to develop prototypes in support of an
Prototyping iterative development/design process. This includes knowledge of and - - 1 1 1 1 2 - - -
ability to assess needs, create a prototype, and produce a model.
Knowledge of technical design. This includes technical areas of
Technical Design - 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
interaction, prototyping, visual design, and related processes.
The ability to use knowledge of user experience (UX), user experience
design (UXD, UED), or experience design (XD) to enhance user
User Experience (UX) 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
satisfaction with a product. This includes improving the usability and
accessibility provided in the interaction with the product.
Knowledge of user interface design, which is the interaction where
users and computers interact. This includes an understanding of how to
User Interface Design 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
provide an optimal industrial design experience through User Interface
(UI) Design.
Knowledge of using user-centered design, which consists of evaluating
user desires at each phase of the iterative design process. This includes
User-Centered Design - 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
pursuing user insights throughout the process to ensure ideal user
design.

