Us er R e s ea r ch | 1
Career Stage Profile
Job Family Group: Design
Job Family: User Research
Summary
Job Family Definition Engages in user research by creating and driving plans for research studies and/or programs based on customer
problems and needs. Applies various research methods and collaborates with others to execute research plans.
Uses research to address business needs, identify and drive solutions and business direction, and assess risks
associated with future initiatives. Takes a multi-dimensional approach to measuring user experience health.
Synthesizes and analyzes quantitative and qualitative user data to form insights and drive business decisions.
Conducts research and applies customer feedback to optimize user experience. Communicates research insights
to various stakeholders. Drives impact through influencing and motivating action that manifests in product
designs or changes to user experience.
Job Profiles included:
• P3 – P6 (G8 – G11)
• M6 (G11)
 Job Profile Summaries
 Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
 Key Responsibilities (Manager)
 Skills

Us er R e s ea r ch | 2
Job Profile Summaries
Job Profile Job Profile Summary
User Research P3 (G8) Creates and drives plans for research studies and/or programs and applies research methods for effective execution of a feature with guidance. Uses sense-making/analysis to synthesize and distill
data for a feature or product with feedback. Shares findings to activate design and engineering processes. Follows established plans and conducts research in collaboration with product to clarify
who the customer is, define customer problems and needs, and identify the critical parts of their context in order to inform product strategy and user experience direction and contributes to the
formation of the solution for a feature. Applies heuristic evaluations and product walkthroughs. Follows guidance to assess user insights that lead to acquisition, user adoption, engagement, and
retention. Produces research-driven insights on industry/vertical trends to reduce uncertainty for conditions that may impact future initiatives. Collaborates with others for cross-disciplinary research
efforts resulting in strong product outcomes. Provides effective tools and templates for product makers. Supports the development of programs for participation in research as assigned by a project
manager/lead. Collaborates with team to create well-formed user experience goals, signals, metrics, and criteria.
User Research P4 (G9) Creates and drives plans for research studies and/or programs and applies research methods for effective execution for a product, product line, or service with minimal guidance. Uses sense-
making/analysis to synthesize and distill data for a product, product line, or service with minimal feedback. Shares insights to activate design and engineering processes. Participates in creating
research plans and conducts research in collaboration with product that clarifies who the customer is, defines customer problems and needs, and identifies the critical parts of their context in order
to inform product strategy and user experience direction and influences the formation of the solution for a product, product line, or service. Applies heuristic evaluations and product walkthroughs.
Assesses user insights that lead to acquisition, user adoption, engagement, and retention. Produces research-driven insights on industry/vertical trends to reduce uncertainty for conditions that may
impact future initiatives. Collaborates with others for cross-disciplinary research efforts resulting in strong product outcomes. Creates effective tools and templates for product makers. Develops
programs for participation in research. Collaborates with team to create well-formed user experience goals, signals, metrics, and criteria.
User Research P5 (G10) Oversees and drives a variety of plans for research studies and/or programs and applies research methods for effective execution for a product, product line, or services. Leads others to use sense-
making/analysis to synthesize and distill data for a product, product line, or services. Shares insights to understand to activate design and engineering processes. Creates research plans and leads
research in collaboration with product that clarifies who the customer is, defines customer problems and needs, and identifies the critical parts of their context in order to inform product strategy and
user experience direction and leads the formation of the solution for a product, product line, or service. Oversees the application of heuristic evaluations and product walkthroughs. Assesses user
insights that lead to acquisition, user adoption, engagement, and retention. Produces research-driven insights on industry/vertical trends to reduce uncertainty for conditions that may impact future
initiatives. Guides cross-disciplinary research efforts resulting in strong product outcomes. Leads efforts to provide effective tools and templates for product makers. Leads development of programs
for participation in research. Leads team to create well-formed user experience goals, signals, metrics, and criteria.
User Research P6 (G11) Champions and drives plans for research initiatives and/or programs with impact across the company or within the industry. Sets direction across teams to define and apply research methods. Sets
best practices and protocols for others to use sense-making/analysis to synthesize and distill data. Champions sharing insights to activate design and engineering processes. Guides team to create
research plans and conduct research that clarifies who the customer is, defines customer problems and needs, and identifies the critical parts of their context in order to inform product strategy and
user experience direction and directs complex, cross-disciplinary solution formation. Shepherds others to apply heuristic evaluations and product walkthroughs. Provides guidance on assessing user
insights that lead to acquisition, user adoption, engagement, and retention. Directs team to produce research-driven insights on industry/vertical trends to reduce uncertainty for conditions that may
impact future initiatives. Champions cross-disciplinary research efforts resulting in strong product outcomes. Manages the delivery of effective tools and templates for product makers. Manages
development of programs for participation in research. Shepherds team to create well-formed user experience goals, signals, metrics, and criteria.
User Research M6 (G11) Champions and drives plans for research initiatives and/or programs with impact across the company or within the industry. Sets direction across teams to define and apply research methods. Sets
best practices and protocols for others to use sense-making/analysis to synthesize and distill data. Champions sharing insights to activate design and engineering processes. Guides team to create
research plans and conduct research that clarifies who the customer is, defines customer problems and needs, and identifies the critical parts of their context in order to inform product strategy and
user experience direction and directs complex, cross-disciplinary solution formation. Shepherds others to apply heuristic evaluations and product walkthroughs. Provides guidance on assessing user
insights that lead to acquisition, user adoption, engagement, and retention. Directs team to produce research-driven insights on industry/vertical trends to reduce uncertainty for conditions that may
impact future initiatives. Champions cross-disciplinary research efforts resulting in strong product outcomes. Manages the delivery of effective tools and templates for product makers. Manages
development of programs for participation in research. Shepherds team to create well-formed user experience goals, signals, metrics, and criteria. In addition, this role has people management
responsibilities including driving employee growth and development, executing projects, and managing performance. Shepherds team to create well-formed user experience goals, signals, metrics,
and criteria for a product, product line, or service.

Us er R e s ea r ch | 3
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
User Research P3 (G8) User Research P4 (G9) User Research P5 (G10) User Research P6 (G11)
Research Core • Creates and drives plans for research studies • Creates and drives plans for research studies • Oversees and drives a variety of plans for • Champions and drives a wide variety of
Research Design and and/or programs for a feature with and/or programs for a product, product line, research studies and/or programs for a plans for research initiatives and/or
Method Selection guidance. or service(s). product, product line, or service(s). programs with impact across the company
• Follows established procedures to define • Defines and scopes problems for an end-to- • Defines and scopes complex problems or within the industry.
and scope standard problems for an end- end (study design, sample selection, test across the company with clear success • Defines and scopes highly complex
to-end (study design, sample selection, test creation, recruiting, moderation, analysis, criteria relevant for business needs beyond problems based on insights synthesized
creation, recruiting, moderation, analysis, reporting) research plan with clear success a product or organization to something across the company and industry with clear
reporting) research plan with clear success criteria relevant for business needs for a larger, such as integrating emerging success criteria relevant for business needs
criteria relevant for business needs for a product, product line, or service. patterns and usage for product investments. beyond a product or organization to
product. • Proactively identifies research needs for a • Proactively identifies research needs across something larger.
• Conducts discovery on research and other product or service and potential problem the organization and potential problem • Proactively identifies highly impactful
data sources that has already been done in areas that need to be researched. areas that need to be researched. research needs across the organization and
order to inform the plan. potential problem areas that need to be
researched.
Research Core • Applies research methods for effective • Applies research methods for effective • Applies research methods for effective • Applies research methods for effective
Research Execution execution of a feature with guidance. execution for a product, product line, or execution for a product, product line, or execution across the company and sets
• Supports collaborative research efforts service with minimal guidance. service(s). industry standards.
resulting in strong product outcomes for a • Leads collaborative research efforts resulting • Leads collaborative research efforts • Leads collaborative cross-disciplinary
feature. in strong product outcomes for a product, resulting in strong product outcomes for a research efforts resulting in strong product
• Learns to define success criteria for research product line, or service. product, product line, or service(s). outcomes across the company.
execution. • Contributes to defining success criteria for • Defines success criteria for research • Defines and helps implement success
research execution. execution. criteria for research execution.
Research Core • Uses sense-making/analysis to synthesize • Uses sense-making/analysis to synthesize • Leads others to use sense-making/analysis • Sets best practices and protocols for others
Sense-Making and Analysis and distill data for a feature or product with and distill data for a product, product line, to synthesize and distill data for a product, to use sense-making/analysis to synthesize
feedback. or service with minimal feedback. product line, or services. and distill data across the company.
• Reviews and analyzes quantitative and/or • Reviews and analyzes quantitative and/or • Reviews and analyzes complex quantitative • Reviews and analyzes highly complex
qualitative data to produce findings and qualitative data to produce insights for a and/or qualitative data to produce broad quantitative and/or qualitative data to
make recommendations for a feature. product, product line, or service. insights for a product, product line, or produce broad and deep insights for the
• Applies basic analyses to strengthen • Applies various analyses to strengthen service. company.
hypotheses to influence smaller scope hypotheses to make moderately sized • Applies a wide variety of analyses to • Applies a wide variety of analyses to
business decisions. business decisions. strengthen hypotheses to make large strengthen hypotheses to make business
• Enables problem identification and utilizes • Enables problem identification and utilizes business decisions. decisions with impacts across the company
data to form aggregate insights for a data to form aggregate insights for a • Guides problem identification and utilizes or industry.
defined feature. product, product line, or service. data to form aggregate insights for a • Leads problem identification and utilizes
product, product line, or service. data to form aggregate insights for
products across the company.

Us er R e s ea r ch | 4
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
User Research P3 (G8) User Research P4 (G9) User Research P5 (G10) User Research P6 (G11)
Research Core • Shares findings in a way that is easy to • Shares insights in a way that is easy to • Shares insights in a way that is easy to • Shares insights in a way that is easy to
Sharing and Activating understand to activate design and understand to activate design and understand to activate design and understand to activate design and
engineering processes from findings for a engineering processes from insights for a engineering processes from insights for a engineering processes from insights for the
feature. product, product line, or service. product, product line, or services. company.
• Creates and/or applies communication • Creates and applies communication • Creates and drives communication methods • Leads and orchestrates communication
methods that promote an emotional methods that results in an emotional that results in an emotional connection to a methods that results in an emotional
connection to a customer and convey real connection to a customer and convey real customer and convey real user stories that connection to a customer and convey real
user stories that reveal customer findings. user stories that reveal customer insights. reveal customer insights. user stories that reveal customer insights.
• Creates a common understanding of usage, • Manifests insights into impact and decisions • Manifests insights into impact and decisions • Guides others to manifest insights into
reaction, feedback, or needs for a defined for project managers/leads and various for various stakeholders. impact and decisions executive leaders and
feature. stakeholders. • Drives impact through convincing, various stakeholders.
• Manifests findings into impact and decisions • Drives impact through convincing, influencing, and motivating action that • Drives impact through convincing,
for project managers/leads. influencing, and motivating action that manifests in product designs or changes for influencing, and motivating action that
• Makes an impact through convincing and manifests in product decisions or changes products, product lines, or services. manifests in major product designs or
motivating action that manifests in product for a product, product line, or service. changes.
decisions or changes for a feature.
Business Application • Follows established plans and conducts • Participates in creating research plans and • Creates research plans and leads research in • Creates and manages research plans and
Customer Definition and research in collaboration with product to conducts research in collaboration with collaboration with product that clarifies who leads research in collaboration with product
Analysis clarify who the customer is, define customer product that clarifies who the customer is, the customer is, defines customer problems that clarifies who the customer is, defines
problems and needs, and identify the critical defines customer problems and needs, and and needs, and identifies the critical parts of customer problems and needs, and
parts of their context in order to inform identifies the critical parts of their context in their context in order to inform product identifies the critical parts of their context in
product strategy and user experience order to inform product strategy and user strategy and user experience direction for order to inform product strategy and user
direction for a feature. experience direction for a product, product product lines or services. experience direction across the company or
• Develops customer insights into a target line, or service. • Delivers customer insights into a target within the industry.
customer profile or description. • Delivers customer insights into a target customer profile or description. • Delivers customer insights into a target
customer profile or description. customer profile or description.
Business Application • Contributes to the formation of the solution • Influences the formation of the solution for • Leads the formation of the solution for a • Directs complex, cross-disciplinary solution
Solution Finding for a feature. a product, product line, or service. product, product line, or service. formation across the company.
• Addresses business needs while making a • Addresses business needs while making a • Addresses business needs while making a • Conducts interviews with target population
business case for the research to project business case for the research to project business case for the research to various to understand needs and helps define the
managers/leaders. managers/leads and various stakeholders. stakeholders. product, applications, and tools overall to
• Follows direction to work with product to • Works with product to develop a • Leads collaboration with product to develop address their needs while making a business
develop a timeline/approach and focus on a timeline/approach and focus on a problem a timeline/approach and focus on a case for the research to executive leaders
problem to lead to a solution. to lead to a solution. problem to lead to a solution. and various stakeholders.

Us er R e s ea r ch | 5
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
User Research P3 (G8) User Research P4 (G9) User Research P5 (G10) User Research P6 (G11)
• Leads collaboration with product to develop
a timeline/approach and focus on complex
problems to lead to innovative solutions.
Business Application • Applies heuristic evaluations and product • Applies heuristic evaluations and product • Oversees the application of heuristic • Guides the application of heuristic
Experience Optimization walkthroughs. walkthroughs. evaluations and product walkthroughs. evaluations and product walkthroughs.
• Improves user experiences through • Improves user experiences through • Drives user experience improvement • Provides guidance to teams across the
continuous iterative research processes for a continuous iterative research processes for a through continuous iterative research company to improve user experiences
feature. product, product line, or service. processes for a product, product line, or through continuous iterative research
• Conducts iterative research with cross- • Conducts iterative research with cross- service. processes.
disciplinary product teams in a lean, disciplinary product teams in a lean, • Conducts iterative research with cross- • Directs others to conduct iterative research
continuous, collaborative, and co- continuous, collaborative, and co- disciplinary product teams in a lean, with cross-disciplinary product teams in a
experienced manner. experienced manner. continuous, collaborative, and co- lean, continuous, collaborative, and co-
• Uses customer feedback to augment experienced manner. experienced manner.
research conclusions (e.g., in product • Uses customer feedback to augment • Helps team use customer feedback to
surveys, crash reports). research conclusions (e.g., in product augment research conclusions (e.g., in
surveys, crash reports). product surveys, crash reports).
Business Application • Follows guidance to assess user insights that • Assesses user insights that lead to • Assesses user insights that lead to • Drives assessments of user insights that lead
Business Needs and lead to acquisition, user adoption, acquisition, user adoption, engagement and acquisition, user adoption, engagement and to acquisition, user adoption, engagement
Opportunities engagement and retention for a feature. retention for a product, product line, or retention for a product, product line, or and retention across the company.
• Seeks feedback to incorporate business service. service. • Proactively incorporates business needs into
needs into research and evaluate • Incorporates business needs into research • Proactively incorporates business needs into research and evaluates opportunities and
opportunities and differentiators for a and evaluates opportunities and research and evaluates opportunities and differentiators for a product, product line, or
feature. differentiators for a product, product line, or differentiators for a product, product line, or service.
service. service.
Business Application • Produces research-driven insights on • Produces research-driven insights on • Produces research-driven insights on • Directs team to produce research-driven
Future Horizons industry/vertical trends to reduce industry/vertical trends to reduce industry/vertical trends to reduce insights on industry/vertical trends to
uncertainty for conditions that may impact uncertainty for conditions that may impact uncertainty for conditions that may impact reduce uncertainty for conditions that may
future initiatives supporting a feature. future initiatives supporting a product, future initiatives supporting a product, impact future initiatives supporting a
• Assists with determining the risk associated product line, or service. product line, or service. product, product line, or service.
with technology uncertainty for future • Determines the risk associated with • Determines the risk associated with • Determines the risk associated with
initiatives by conducting new and/or technology uncertainty for future initiatives technology uncertainty for future initiatives technology uncertainty for future initiatives
foraging for existing research for a feature. by conducting new and/or foraging for by conducting new and/or foraging for by conducting new and/or foraging for
• Supports identification of future business existing research for a feature. existing research for a product, product line, existing research for critical areas of the
opportunities or direction through • Identifies future business opportunities or or service. company.
generative research and need finding. direction through generative research and
need finding.

Us er R e s ea r ch | 6
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
User Research P3 (G8) User Research P4 (G9) User Research P5 (G10) User Research P6 (G11)
• Leads identification of future business • Drives identification of future business
opportunities or direction through opportunities or direction through
generative research and need finding. generative research and need finding.
•
Cross-Disciplinary • Collaborates with others for cross- • Collaborates with others for cross- • Guides cross-disciplinary research efforts • Drives cross-disciplinary research efforts
Collaboration disciplinary research efforts resulting in disciplinary research efforts resulting in resulting in strong product outcomes. resulting in strong product outcomes.
Training and Collaborative strong product outcomes. strong product outcomes. • Provides coaching to a variety of • Provides expert-level coaching to a variety
Partnerships • Shares basic knowledge with cross- • Provides coaching to a variety of stakeholders on how to apply user research. of stakeholders on the value and rigor of
disciplinary teams on how to apply user stakeholders on how to apply user research. • Contributes to the development of user research and how to apply user research.
research. • Models research techniques with teams to experience research curriculum • Serves as expert resource for the
• Participates in collaborative activities (e.g., help guide less experienced team members. development and delivery for professional development of user experience research
journey mapping exercises, • Assists team with the development of user development efforts. curriculum development and delivery for
brainstorming/ideation workshops) with experience research curriculum • Leads collaborative activities (e.g., journey professional development efforts.
cross-disciplinary teams. development and delivery for professional mapping exercises, brainstorming/ideation • Provides expert guidance during
• Provides support to review product maker development efforts. workshops) with cross-disciplinary teams. collaborative activities (e.g., journey
customer engagement plans and make • Shares insights through collaborative • Leads the review of product maker mapping exercises, brainstorming/ideation
recommendations to improve product team activities (e.g., journey mapping exercises, customer engagement plans and makes workshops) with cross-disciplinary teams.
learning and customer good will. brainstorming/ideation workshops) with recommendations to improve product team • Oversees the review of product maker
cross-disciplinary teams. learning and customer good will. customer engagement plans and makes
• Reviews product maker customer recommendations to improve product team
engagement plans and makes learning and customer good will.
recommendations to improve product team
learning and customer good will.
Cross-Disciplinary • Provides effective tools and templates for • Creates effective tools and templates for • Leads efforts to provide effective tools and • Leads efforts to provide effective tools and
Collaboration product makers to capture their product makers to capture their templates for product makers to capture templates for product makers to capture
Self-Service Research assumptions and express them as testable assumptions and express them as testable their assumptions and express them as their assumptions and express them as
Enablement hypotheses. hypotheses. testable hypotheses. testable hypotheses.
• Provides reference question • Provides reference question • Drives initiatives to provide reference • Oversees the development and delivery of
libraries/templates for product makers to libraries/templates for product makers and question libraries/templates for product reference question libraries/templates for
draw from when creating discussion guides other researchers to draw from when makers to draw from when creating product makers to draw from when creating
for their research. creating discussion guides for their research. discussion guides for their research. discussion guides for their research.
• Provides customer templates such as • Provides customer templates such as • Ensures that team provides customer • Directs team to provide customer templates
correspondence, report, and profile correspondence, report, and profile templates such as correspondence, report, such as correspondence, report, and profile
templates for product makers. templates for product makers. and profile templates for product makers. templates for product makers.

Us er R e s ea r ch | 7
Key Responsibilities (Professional/Individual Contributor)
User Research P3 (G8) User Research P4 (G9) User Research P5 (G10) User Research P6 (G11)
Cross-Disciplinary • Supports the development of programs for • Develops programs for participation in • Leads development of programs for • Drives development of programs for
Collaboration participation in research for a feature as research for a product, product line, or participation in research for a product, participation in research across the
Programs and Services assigned by a project manager/lead. service. product line, or service. company and industry for a product,
• Assists platform level decisions on data • Influences platform level decisions on data • Influences platform level decisions on data product line, or service.
collection instrumentation. collection instrumentation. collection instrumentation. • Makes platform level decisions on data
• Completes assigned tasks to support • Performs planning, coordinating, and • Leads planning, coordinating, and executing collection instrumentation.
planning, coordinating, and executing larger executing larger scale customer learning larger scale customer learning events. • Oversees planning, coordinating, and
scale customer learning events. events. executing larger scale customer learning
events.
Cross-Disciplinary • Collaborates with team to create well- • Collaborates with team to create well- • Leads team to create well-formed user • Directs the creation of well-formed user
Collaboration formed user experience goals, signals, formed user experience goals, signals, experience goals, signals, metrics, and experience goals, signals, metrics, and
Measurement metrics, and criteria (e.g., user experience metrics, and criteria (e.g., user experience criteria (e.g., user experience [UX], objectives criteria (e.g., user experience [UX], objectives
Operationalization [UX], objectives and key results [OKRs]) for a [UX], objectives and key results [OKRs]) for a and key results [OKRs]) for a product, and key results [OKRs]) for a product,
product. product, product line, or service. product line, or service. product line, or service.
• Uses instruments for measuring user • Identifies leading instruments for measuring • Guides team to identify leading instruments • Guides team to identify leading instruments
experience health and drives effective user experience health and drives effective for measuring user experience health and for measuring user experience health and
deployment and ongoing utilization within deployment and ongoing utilization within drives effective deployment and ongoing drives effective deployment and ongoing
their product teams. their product teams. utilization within their product teams. utilization within their product teams.
• Follows direction to take a multi- • Guides team to take a multi-dimensional • Provides consultation on taking a multi- • Encourages team to take a multi-
dimensional view into user experience view into user experience health and dimensional view into user experience dimensional view into user experience
health and measurement. measurement. health and measurement. health and measurement.

Us er R e s ea r ch | 8
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
User Research M6 (G11)
Research Core • Champions and drives plans for research initiatives and/or programs with impact across the company or within the industry.
Research Design and Method • Provides guidance to teams through defining and scoping problems based on insights synthesized across the company or within the industry with clear success criteria relevant for business
Selection needs beyond a product or organization to something larger.
• Ensures teams proactively identify research needs and potential problem areas that need to be researched.
Research Core • Sets direction across teams to define and apply research methods for effective execution across the company.
Research Execution • Oversees collaborative cross-disciplinary research efforts resulting in strong product outcomes across the company.
• Coaches others on defining success criteria for research execution.
Research Core • Sets best practices and protocols for others to use sense-making/analysis to synthesize and distill data across the company.
Sense-Making and Analysis • Drives vision for the review and analysis of quantitative and/or qualitative data to draw conclusions across the company.
• Oversees teams applying analyses to strengthen hypotheses to make business decisions with impacts across the company or industry.
• Champions problem identification and utilizes data to form aggregate insights for a defined product/service area or scenario.
Research Core • Champions sharing insights in a way that is easy to understand to activate design and engineering processes from insights.
Sharing and Activating • Champions and promotes the creation of communication methods that promote an emotional connection to a customer and convey real user stories that reveal customer insights.
• Guides others to manifest insights into impact and decisions for executive leaders and various stakeholders.
• Drives impact through convincing, influencing, and motivating action that manifests in product designs or changes.
Business Application • Guides team to create research plans and conduct research that clarifies who the customer is, defines customer problems and needs, and identifies the critical parts of their context in order to
Customer Definition and Analysis inform product strategy and user experience direction across the company or within the industry.
• Coaches others on delivering customers insights into a target customer profile or description.
Business Application • Directs complex, cross-disciplinary solution formation across the company.
Solution Finding • Makes a business case for the research to executive leaders and various stakeholders.
• Leads team working backward in research and development, focusing more heavily on the problem to lead to a solution rather than creating something highly original but lacking in
application potential.
• Provides direction to work with product to develop a timeline/approach and focus on problems to lead to solutions.
Business Application • Shepherds others across the company to apply heuristic evaluations and product walkthroughs.
Experience Optimization • Provides guidance to teams across the company to improve user experiences through continuous iterative research processes.
• Directs others to conduct iterative research with cross-disciplinary product teams in a lean, continuous, collaborative, and co-experienced manner.
• Helps team use customer feedback to augment research conclusions (e.g., in product surveys, crash reports).
Business Application • Provides guidance to team on assessing user insights that lead to acquisition, user adoption, engagement, and retention across the company.
Business Needs and Opportunities • Leads team to incorporate business needs into research and evaluate opportunities and differentiators for a product, product line, or service.
Business Application • Directs team to produce research-driven insights on industry/vertical trends to reduce uncertainty for conditions that may impact future initiatives supporting a product, product line, or
Future Horizons service.
• Helps team determine the risk associated with technology uncertainty for future initiatives by conducting new and/or foraging for existing research for a product, product line, or service.
• Drives identification of future business opportunities or direction through generative research and need finding.

Us er R e s ea r ch | 9
Key Responsibilities (Manager)
User Research M6 (G11)
Cross-Disciplinary Collaboration • Champions cross-disciplinary research efforts resulting in strong product outcomes.
Training and Collaborative • Provides coaching to a variety of stakeholders on how to apply user research.
Partnerships • Manages and provides expert guidance on the development of user experience research curriculum development and delivery for professional development efforts.
• Directs and oversees collaborative activities (e.g., journey mapping exercises, brainstorming/ideation workshops) with cross-disciplinary teams.
• Oversees the review of product maker customer engagement plans and makes recommendations to improve product team learning and customer good will.
Cross-Disciplinary Collaboration • Manages the delivery of effective tools and templates for product makers to capture their assumptions and express them as testable hypotheses.
Self-Service Research Enablement • Coaches team on providing reference question libraries/templates for product makers to draw from when creating discussion guides for their research.
• Directs team to provide customer templates such as correspondence, report, and profile templates for product makers.
Cross-Disciplinary Collaboration • Manages development of programs for participation in research across the company and industry for a product, product line, or service.
Programs and Services • Makes platform level decisions on data collection instrumentation.
• Oversees planning, coordinating, and executing larger scale customer learning events.
Cross-Disciplinary Collaboration • Shepherds team to create well-formed user experience goals, signals, metrics, and criteria (e.g., user experience [UX], objectives and key results [OKRs]) for a product, product line, or service.
Measurement Operationalization • Guides team to identify leading instruments for measuring user experience health and drives effective deployment and ongoing utilization within their product teams.
• Provides direction and coaching to team to take a multi-dimensional view into user experience health and measurement.

Us er R e s ea r ch | 10
Skills
Skill Key
1 Critical/Important and Required Upon Hire
2 Critical/Important and NOT Required Upon Hire
- Not Important/Critical
Skill Cluster Name Skill Name Skill Definition P3 (G8) P4 (G9) P5 (G10) P6 (G11) M6 (G11)
The ability to understand and deliver information through a contextually
Communications appropriate medium that is tailored to the audience. This includes oral and 2 1 1 1 1
written communication in English for work matters.
The ability to manage conflict, disharmony, and strife among people and
Conflict Resolution 2 2 1 1 1
situations, while recognizing and addressing sensitivities.
The skill to influence others, develop and maintain working relationships,
Consulting 2 1 1 1 1
and deliver results and/or expertise for a client in a professional manner.
The ability to deliver formal presentations to others. This includes sharing
Communication and
information on a range of topics in a clear, concise, engaging and
Influence Formal Presentation
convincing manner; commanding the audience’s attention; using effective 1 1 1 1 1
Delivery
presentation materials (e.g., handouts, visual aids); and handling questions
or argumentative positions from the audience.
Knowledge of processes for organizing high-level information and evidence
into a coherent and clear message. This includes the ability to tailor writing
Research Writing 1 1 1 1 1
style and level of difficulty based on the audience's familiarity with related
research or topics.
Translation of Insights Demonstrates the ability to translate raw data into insights. 1 1 1 1 1
The ability to collect information and identify fundamental patterns/trends in
complex data. This includes the ability to gather, integrate, and interpret
Analytical Thinking 1 1 1 1 1
information from several sources, use information to generate insights, and
make decisions.
Knowledge of company operations and roles across the organization. This
Data Driven Decision Company Acumen includes knowledge of and the ability to follow company policies, processes, - 2 1 1 1
Making and Problem and procedures.
Solving The ability to systematically gather information from a variety of sources,
analyze information, identify implications of data, draw conclusions,
generate alternatives and solutions, and evaluate the consequences of
Data Analysis 1 1 1 1 1
choosing each alternative using quality metrics and data. This includes the
ability to convert general data and findings into applied, specific information
and suggestions that add value to business planning and strategies.

Us er R e s ea r ch | 11
The ability to convert general data and findings into applied, specific
Data Application information and suggestions that inform and activate product teams and 1 1 1 1 1
business leader decision makers.
The ability to make decisions in a fast-paced, rapidly changing environment.
This includes the ability to define, diagnose, and determine an appropriate
Decision Making 2 2 1 1 1
resolution, recommendation, or decision while considering alternatives and
factors (e.g., resources, costs, tradeoffs).
The ability to identify problems and review related information to develop
Problem Solving 1 1 1 1 1
and evaluate options and implement solutions.
Industry Trends and The ability to understand the industry/vertical emerging trends, explore how
Emerging Industry industry-specific business challenges are being solved through unique - 2 1 1 1
Solutions vendor and/or partner solutions.
The ability to strategically recognize and address unmet needs in industry or
knowledge and to create novel, practical, and effective solutions to these
Outcome Driven unmet needs. This involves the ability to work backwards in research and
2 2 1 1 1
Innovation development, focusing more heavily on the problem to lead to a solution
rather than creating something highly original but lacking in application
potential.
Knowledge of research practices that follow a process of naturalistic inquiry
that seeks in-depth understanding of phenomena within their natural
Qualitative Research 1 1 1 1 1
setting. This includes knowledge of design parameters, sampling strategies,
data collection, and analytical techniques.
Market Acumen Knowledge of the systematic investigation of phenomena by gathering
Quantitative Research quantifiable data and performing statistical, mathematical or computational 1 1 1 1 1
techniques.
The skills and ability to guide multi-person research efforts resulting in
Research Management 1 1 1 1 1
strong product outcomes.
The ability to employ research methods to enable product teams to
strategically recognize and address unmet needs in industry or knowledge
and to create novel, practical, and effective solutions to these unmet needs.
Research Methods 1 1 1 1 1
This involves the ability to work backwards in research and development,
focusing more heavily on the problem to lead to a solution rather than
creating something highly original but lacking in application potential.
Knowledge of trends, direction, new products, and changes in the
Technology Industry
technology as it applies to a particular area of focus, as well as specific - 2 1 1 1
Knowledge
knowledge about hardware, software, and services.
Knowledge of others' expertise and the ability to involve multiple players
Collaborative Innovation (within and outside the organization) in the creation or development of 2 1 1 1 1
Project and Program
novel products, processes, or research streams.
Management
The ability to design and implement education programs, including
Educational Programs 1 1 1 1 1
mentoring, content creation, brown bag sessions, blogs, etc.

Us er R e s ea r ch | 12
The ability to apply principles, systems, tools, and strategic insights to
Operational Excellence sustainably improve key performance indicator (KPI) metrics and drive 2 1 1 1 1
operational efficiencies.
Knowledge of and the ability to carry out the process of planning,
organizing, and managing tasks and resources to accomplish a well-defined
objective. This includes the ability to manage and provide project
Project Management 1 1 1 1 1
deliverables, optimize the contribution of the people involved, and assess
the impact of project decisions on quality, productivity, schedules, cost,
performance, etc.
The ability to manage project stakeholders and stakeholder engagements.
Project Stakeholder
This includes identifying stakeholders, prioritizing their concerns, managing 1 1 1 1 1
Management
expectations, and planning and monitoring stakeholder engagements.
The ability to create effective and forward-thinking strategies and action
plans for both long-term and short-term projects. This includes the ability to
Project Visioning 2 1 1 1 1
engage others to commit to the vision by communicating specific goals and
objectives.
The ability to manage scope over the course of a project, including
determining which changes are essential, estimating their impact on the
Scope Management 1 1 1 1 1
project, ensuring that changes do not expand scope beyond acceptable
levels, and keeping a change record to track progress.
The ability to apply ingenuity, inventiveness, and imagination to the inclusive
Creativity 2 1 1 1 1
design and construction of a product, service, program, or initiative.
Knowledge of design heuristics and the ability to conduct a heuristic
Design Heuristics 1 1 1 1 1
evaluation to measure the usability of user interfaces.
Distillation of Results The ability to distill and tailor results for internal stakeholders. 1 1 1 1 1
Knowledge of the design between users and products through interaction
Interaction Design design. This includes understanding how to integrate user desires into 1 1 1 1 1
product design.
Knowledge of technical design. This includes technical areas of interaction,
Technical Design 2 2 1 1 1
prototyping, visual design, and related processes.
User Experience and The ability to use knowledge of user experience (UX), user experience design
Design (UXD, UED), or experience design (XD) to enhance user satisfaction with a
User Experience (UX) 1 1 1 1 1
product. This includes improving the usability and accessibility provided in
the interaction with the product.
Knowledge of user experience design, which is the interaction where users
User Experience Design
and computers interact. This includes an understanding of how to provide 1 1 1 1 1
(UED)
an optimal industrial design experience through UI design.
Knowledge of a broad set of user experience research tools (e.g., survey
User Experience
tools, data analysis tools, research platforms, design tools). This includes the 1 1 1 1 1
Research Tools
ability to apply the knowledge of these tools to working situations.
The ability to apply knowledge of the functionality and components of an
User Scenarios 1 1 1 1 1
application from a user or first level support standpoint in order to classify

Us er R e s ea r ch | 13
typical use scenarios, potential failure modes, product/service reliability and
quality, which can then inform opportunities to improve upon product
design or service delivery.
Knowledge of using user-centered design, which consists of evaluating user
User-Centered Design desires at each phase of the iterative design process. This includes pursuing 1 1 1 1 1
user insights throughout the process to ensure ideal user design.

